Commercial-vehicle sales in Italy rose 11.4 % in February from a year earlier , to 8,848 units , according to provisional figures from the Italian Association of Auto Makers .
Industrial production in Italy declined 3.4 % in January from a year earlier , the government said .
Canadian manufacturers ' new orders fell to $ 20.80 billion -LRB- Canadian -RRB- in January , down 4 % from December 's $ 21.67 billion on a seasonally adjusted basis , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , said .
The decrease followed a 4.5 % increase in December .
Manufacturers ' shipments followed the same trend , falling 1.5 % in January to $ 21.08 billion , after a 2.8 % increase the previous month .
The agency said there is `` some indication of an upturn '' in the recent irregular pattern of shipments , following the generally downward trend recorded during the first half of 1986 .
Boeing Co. said its Boeing Computer Services Co. unit received a contract , valued at about $ 114 million over its first five years , to provide computer equipment and services for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville , Ala. .
The contract begins in May with an initial one-year term , with renewal options for nine additional years .
The contract consolidates 26 existing contracts that Boeing Computer Services has with NASA. Major subcontractors are Unisys , based in Detroit , and New Technology Inc. , Huntsville , Ala. , Boeing said .
The computer-services subsidiary of Boeing , a defense contractor and maker of commercial aircraft , began performing mission services at Marshall in 1981 .
Wyman-Gordon Co. said it plans to invest $ 11.7 million in two projects that will improve its capability in metals technology .
The maker of forgings said it will install a plasma cold hearth refining system in its Millbury , Mass. , facility to produce nickel-base alloy powder metal and titanium alloy electrodes .
It also plans to modify its 35,000-ton hydraulic forging press in its Grafton , Mass. , plant so that it will be able to perform an extrusion process .
Rogers Corp. , a maker of parts for the electronics industry , said its board approved a rights plan designed to protect holders in the event of a hostile takeover attempt .
The company said it is n't aware of any takeover interest .
Rogers said the rights , under certain circumstances , entitle holders to buy shares in Rogers or in a surviving company at half price .
Revlon Group Inc. said it completed the acquisition of the U.S. cosmetics business of Germaine Monteil Cosmetiques Corp. , a unit of London-based Beecham Group PLC .
Terms were n't disclosed , but industry sources said the price was about $ 2.5 million .
The sale includes the rights to Germaine Monteil in North and South America and in the Far East , as well as the worldwide rights to the Diane Von Furstenberg cosmetics and fragrance lines and U.S. distribution rights to Lancaster beauty products .
Revlon is a cosmetics concern , and Beecham is a pharmaceutical concern .
Texas Instruments Inc. said it expects to begin construction on a 380,000-square-foot plant next month near Denton , Texas .
The company said the plant will be completed by late 1988 and will employ between 1,000 and 1,500 people .
The plant will be used by Texas Instruments ' Defense Systems and Electronics Group to produce electronic equipment .
Patten Corp. said it is negotiating a possible joint venture with Hearst Corp. of New York and Anglo-French investor Sir James Goldsmith to sell land on the East Coast .
Patten , which buys and sells parcels of undeveloped land in the Northeast , said it would help Hearst and Mr. Goldsmith sell land holdings along the Eastern Seaboard .
But the company would n't elaborate .
`` Nothing has been agreed to , '' said Donald Dion , executive vice president and treasurer .
Hearst Corp. would n't comment , and Mr. Goldsmith could n't be reached .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Patten 's shares rose $ 2.375 , to $ 25.375 .
Mr. Dion , explaining the recent increase in the stock price , said , `` Obviously , it would be very attractive to our company to work with these people . ''
Merrill Lynch & Co. said it extended an existing agreement with Quotron Systems Inc. for financial information and quote services while it awaits delivery of a competing service .
As previously reported , Automatic Data Processing Inc. , Roseland , N.J. , is developing a customized quote service for Merrill Lynch 's brokerage operations .
Terms of the contract have n't been disclosed .
Quotron , a unit of New York-based Citicorp , said that under the revised contract , it will continue to supply services to Merrill Lynch offices through November 1989 .
Merrill Lynch also has an option to extend the agreement through February 1993 .
Separately , Automatic Data said it agreed with Merrill Lynch on specifications for the new system .
Automatic Data said it expects to begin installing the new system by year 's end and to complete the installation in about two years .
A Merrill Lynch spokesman called the revised Quotron agreement `` a prudent management move -- it gives us a little flexibility . ''
Universal Resources Corp. said holders approved the previously announced acquisition by Questar Corp. of the 4.7 million Universal shares Questar does n't already own .
Under terms of the acquisition , Questar will purchase the shares for $ 3 each , or $ 14.2 million .
Questar , a Salt Lake City-based energy company , already has a 53.4 % stake in Universal , also an energy company .
Separately , Universal said its 15 3/4 % debentures due Dec. 15 , 1996 , will be redeemed April 19 .
The redemption price for the debentures , of which about $ 34 million is outstanding , will equal 104.8 % of the face value , plus accrued interest .
Commercial Credit Co. said its American Health & Life Insurance Co. unit signed a contract to sell part of its business to American National Insurance Co. of Galveston , Texas , for $ 39 million .
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval .
The financial services company said about 100 employees of American Health will lose their jobs after the sale is completed in August .
American National will assume the business of universal and life insurance .
The latest action will complete the restructuring phase that Commercial Credit began in December 1986 .
American Health will now specialize in credit-related life and health insurance products as well as annuities .
Stanley Interiors Corp. said it expects its first-quarter net income to be about the same as the $ 286,000 , or 14 cents a share , posted a year earlier .
The maker of furniture and fabrics said it earlier expected first-quarter net to exceed the year-ago profit , but snowstorms in January and February forced the company to close some manufacturing facilities for as long as six days .
The closings reduced operating profit , but that was substantially offset by reduced interest expenses , the company said .
Stanley said it does n't anticipate a permanent loss of sales because of the closings .
Substantially all the delayed shipments should be made in the second quarter , the company said .
Seagram Co. said it realigned its fine-wine operations following the recent sale of its medium-priced table wine business .
Seagram Vintners , the division that included all fine-wine operations , was dissolved .
Seagram Vintners had included two units , Seagram Classics Wine Co. and Seagram Chateau & Estate Wines Co. , and those two units will continue to run the fine-wine operations .
Seagram Classics Wine , which includes the distiller 's California wines , will relocate from New York to the San Francisco area .
Samuel Bronfman II , 33 years old , will continue as president of the unit .
James L. Bareuther , 42 , continues as executive vice president in charge of sales and marketing ; and Michael E. Harbison , 33 , was named executive vice president in charge of finance .
Mr. Harbison formerly held the same position at Seagram Wine Co. , the table-wine unit that was sold .
Seagram Chateau & Estate Wines , which imports European wines , will continue to be based in New York .
Abdallah H. Simon , 64 , remains the unit 's chairman .
Both Mr. Bronfman and Mr. Simon will report to David G. Sacks , president and chief operating officer of Seagram .
Pubco Corp. said its board approved an anti-takeover plan involving the distribution of stock-purchase rights to shareholders .
Under the plan , the holder of each common share will receive on March 31 the right to buy one additional share for $ 3 .
The rights are exercisable if a suitor acquires or makes a tender offer for at least 20 % of the stock .
Pubco , a holding company with interests that include printing and real estate rental , said the plan is to ensure fair treatment of all holders in the event of a takeover , and to guard against abusive takeover tactics .
Pubco added that it is n't aware of any current takeover interest in the company .
Pubco shares closed Friday at 93.75 cents , up 12.5 cents , in national over-the-counter trading .
The Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corp. plans to offer $ 1.7 billion of bonds Thursday .
The offering will include $ 540 million of bonds due July 1 , and $ 1.16 billion of bonds maturing Oct. 1 .
All the bonds will be dated April 1 , and interest rates on the securities will be announced Wednesday .
Proceeds will be used to retire bonds maturing April 1 , and to finance operations .
The offerings will be made through the corporation and a nationwide group of securities dealers and dealer banks .
John A. Krol was named group vice president , Agriculture Products department , of this diversified chemicals company , succeeding Dale E. Wolf , who will retire May 1 .
Mr. Krol was formerly vice president in the Agriculture Products department .
Canadian farmers are expected to seed 32.6 million acres of wheat this year , a 7.2 % decline from last year 's record 35.1 million acres , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , said .
The agency said barley acreage is expected to increase 9.9 % to 13.8 million acres from 12.6 million last year .
Barley is Canada 's major feed grain , and the estimated 1987 acreage is the largest since 1971 .
Rapeseed acreage is expected to decline 3 % to 6.7 million acres from 6.9 million last year .
Rapeseed , also known as canola , is Canada 's main oilseed crop .
Yankee Cos. said it expects to post a $ 1.5 million loss from discontinued operations , possibly in its third quarter ending March 31 .
The anticipated loss will stem from plans of a subsidiary , Eskey Inc. , to sell the assets and business of its Yale E. Key Inc. unit to a group of that company 's managers and a private investor for about $ 15.5 million .
Yale E. Key is a well-service concern .
In the year-ago third quarter , Yankee had net income of $ 762,000 , or 12 cents a primary share , on revenue of $ 51.6 million .
Earnings included a $ 615,000 write-down of an investment .
Yankee , an energy and financial services concern , said the sale is part of its plan to focus on its core businesses and reduce its total indebtedness .
The company expects the sale to be completed later this month , but said it still requires a definitive agreement .
John F. Boehm , formerly president of Ashland Oil Inc. 's Valvoline Oil Co. unit , was named to the new post of chairman and chief executive officer of the subsidiary .
Mr. Boehm , 60 years old , will be succeeded by John D. Barr , 39 , formerly executive vice president , who will also hold the additional title of chief operating officer .
Valvoline , based in Lexington , Ky. , is the nation 's No. 3 marketer of motor oil .
Ashland refines and markets oil .
BankEast Corp. said it signed a non-binding letter of intent to acquire First Federal Bank of Nashua , N.H. , for about $ 35 million .
In the proposed transaction , each of First Federal 's common shares would be converted into $ 60 of BankEast common stock .
BankEast said each First Federal common share would be swapped for 2.9 to 3.5 BankEast common shares .
This is subject to certain adjustments , including ones based on First Federal 's earnings before the closing date , BankEast said .
First Federal , which has about $ 270 million in assets , currently has 566,100 common shares outstanding .
BankEast has about 10 million common shares outstanding and assets of $ 1.05 billion .
John Snow , BankEast 's president , said his company has been interested in the Nashua market .
The acquisition provides `` an opportunity for BankEast to develop more substantially in that market , '' he said .
`` We now have a relatively small presence there . ''
BankEast said it hopes to complete the acquisition by year 's end .
John O' Brien , First Federal president , said he regards BankEast as a `` very good banking organization . ''
He said BankEast 's offer appears to be `` attractive to the bank 's shareholders . ''
First Federal 's shareholders still must vote on the acquisition , which also requires the execution of a definitive agreement and approval from regulators .
In national over-the-counter trading Friday , BankEast shares fell 25 cents to $ 16.50 .
Ohio Power Co. , a unit of American Electric Power Co. , said it will redeem $ 34.4 million of its first mortgage bonds June 1 .
Ohio Power said the transactions involve the partial redemption of two issues : $ 33 million of its 10 % bonds due 2006 and $ 1.4 million of its 12 7/8 % bonds due 2013 .
The price will be par , plus accrued interest for the 10 % series .
Ohio Edison Co. , seeking to lessen the financial impact of the Perry nuclear plant , said it completed a sale-leaseback transaction for a portion of its ownership in the plant .
Under the arrangement , the utility sold about 30 % of its stake in one of the northern Ohio plant 's two reactors -- the 1.2 million-kilowatt Unit 1 -- to a group of institutional investors led by Citicorp , a New York bank holding company .
Ohio Edison owns about 30 % of the unit .
Ohio Edison said the investors will pay it $ 509 million for the stake , then lease it back for 29 years at a rate estimated at 8.5 % to 9 % of the cash payment .
The Perry plant , whose ownership is split among several utilites , has been dogged by construction delays and cost overruns .
Ohio Edison 's outside auditors , citing uncertainties over whether the utility could recover the construction costs of the plant , qualified both its 1985 and 1986 financial statements .
Ohio Edison said the proceeds from the sale will finance the balance of its 1987 construction program and repay bank loans incurred for the retirement of high-interest , long-term debt .
The utility added that it plans later this year to ask the Public Utilities Commission of Ohio to allow it to recover the cost of Perry .
Ohio Edison said the transaction will allow the equity investors to take advantage of federal tax benefits .
The following issues recently were filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission :
MARKITSTAR INC. , 1.7 million common shares .
Of the total , 1.5 million will be sold by the company and the rest by shareholders , via Woolcott & Co. .
ATARI CORP. , $ 75 million of convertible debentures due 2012 , via PaineWebber Inc. .
STANLEY INTERIORS CORP. , $ 30 million of convertible debentures due 2012 , via Salomon Brothers Inc. .
THERMO ELECTRON CORP. , $ 75 million of convertible debentures due 2012 , via Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. .
AMAX INC. , 15,757,350 common shares .
Of the total , 15 million shares will be sold by the company and the rest by a shareholder .
Underwriters led by First Boston Corp. will offer 12,607,350 in the U.S.and Credit Suisse First Boston Ltd. will offer the balance outside the U.S. .
WEYERHAEUSER CO. , four million convertible exchangeable preference shares , via Morgan Stanley & Co. .
MERRYLAND & INVESTMENT CO. , two million common shares , via Johnson , Lane , Space , Smith & Co. .
KANSAS CITY POWER & LIGHT CO. , shelf filing of as much as $ 100 million of mortgage bonds .
VIRGINIA ELECTRIC POWER CO. , a unit of Dominion Resources Inc. , shelf filing for as many as 1,350,000 preferred shares .
FIRST INTERSTATE BANCORP , shelf filing for as much as $ 1.5 billion in debt securities .
Texaco Inc. said it reorganized certain of its oil-exploration operations .
The energy concern said it formed a `` frontier exploration '' department that will initiate and evaluate highly speculative oil opportunities for the company .
Frontier exploration was previously carried out by each of the company 's regional divisions .
Texaco said the consolidation of these operations will allow the geographic divisions to focus on the more mature , established oil basins .
Clarence P. Cazalot , 36 years old , was named general manager of the new department .
He was formerly assistant to James W. Kinnear , Texaco chairman .
OKC Limited Partnership said a federal appeals court in New Orleans upheld a $ 21.5 million judgment against the company .
As reported last April , a federal district court in New Orleans ruled against OKC in a 1981 lawsuit filed by Aminoil USA Inc. , now part of Phillips Petroleum Co. .
The court ruled that OKC had n't paid Aminoil its full share of profits from an offshore petroleum lease that Aminoil had farmed out to OKC .
The court ordered OKC to pay Phillips the profits , plus interest , which currently total about $ 21.5 million .
OKC said it plans to file a motion for a rehearing in an attempt to overturn the decision , but the company said its chances of winning a rehearing are `` remote . ''
The company said it does n't expect the ruling to have a major impact on earnings because it had already set aside about $ 14 million in reserves to cover the judgment and reached an agreement for a bank loan to pay the balance .
Millard S. Drexler , 42 years old , formerly executive vice president , merchandising , was named president of the apparel retailer , succeeding Donald G. Fisher , 58 , who remains chairman and chief executive officer .
Super Valu Stores Inc. said it plans $ 330 million in capital spending for fiscal 1988 , a 9 % decrease from the $ 363.7 million spent in the year ended Feb. 27 .
The food wholesaler and retailer said the new budget is down primarily because the previous budget included funding for such major projects as new distribution centers at New Stanton , Pa. , and Hammond , La. .
The company said the new budget provides for significant additions to a number of its distribution centers , for upgrading computer equipment , for 10 new ShopKo discount department stores and for $ 70 million in financing for its independent retailer customers .
Super Valu said the largest portion of the budget , $ 181.8 million , or 55 % , will be allocated to its retail support operations .
Barbara C.M. Dudley was named a director of this bank holding company , increasing board membership to 27 .
Mrs. Dudley is a former chairman of First Albany Corp. , a securities firm .
LANDMARK BANCSHARES will begin trading Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol LBC .
The St. Louis-based bank holding company previously traded on the American Stock Exchange .
Three previously unreported issues began trading recently on the Big Board .
VALERO NATURAL GAS PARTNERS L.P. , based in San Antonio , Texas , began trading units under the symbol VLP .
The natural gas pipeline and natural gas liquid company is a spinoff from Valero Energy Corp. , San Antonio .
Valero Energy retains a 49 % stake in the partnership .
COLONIAL MUNICIPAL INCOME TRUST , a Boston-based closed-end mangement investment company , began trading under the symbol CMU .
PETROLANE PARTNERS L.P. began trading units under the symbol LPG .
The Los Angeles-based company was formed to conduct the liquefied petroleum gas business of Petrolane Inc. , a unit of Texas Eastern Corp. , Houston .
Texas Eastern retains a 45 % stake in the partnership .
On the American Stock Exchange , LANDMARK TECHNOLOGY CORP. , based in Marietta , Ga. , began trading under the symbol LCO .
The real estate services company formerly traded over the counter .
Ten new issues began trading over the counter recently .
ALLIED BANKSHARES INC. , a Thomson , Ga.-based bank holding company , began trading under the symbol ABGA .
BRINKMANN INSTRUMENTS INC. , based in Westbury , Conn. , began trading under the symbol BRIK .
The company markets and distributes scientific instruments , apparatus and disposables used for quality control of manufacturing processes and for environmental monitoring .
CORKEN INTERNATIONAL CORP. , based in Oklahoma City , began trading under the symbol CORK .
The company designs , manufactures and markets pumps , valves and compressors used in handling flammable and hazardous liquids and gases .
The company was a 100 % -owned unit of Hinderliter Industries Inc. , Tulsa , Okla. , which retains an 80.6 % stake .
FAMILY GROUP BROADCASTING L.P. began trading units under the symbol FGBPZ .
The Tampa , Fla.-based company plans to acquire and operate television and radio stations .
FIRST FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION OF SALT LAKE CITY began trading under the symbol FFUT .
M.M.R. HOLDING CORP. , based in Baton Rouge , La. , began trading under the symbol MMRH .
The company provides electrical and mechanical specialty contracting services to governmental , industrial and commercial clients .
MAGMA COPPER CO. began trading Class B common stock on a when-issued basis under the symbol MGCPV .
The San Manuel , Ariz.-based copper company is a spinoff from Newmont Mining Corp. , New York , which is distributing an 80 % interest in the new company .
MERIDIAN INSURANCE GROUP INC. , an Indianapolis-based insurance holding company , began trading under the symbol MIGI .
RHONE-POULENC S.A. , based in Paris , began trading American depositary receipts under the symbol RHPOY .
Each ADR , which is physically deposited abroad but owned in the U.S. , represents one half of a preferred non-voting share .
The multi-national company is engaged in the development , production and marketing of chemicals , pharmaceuticals , synthetic fibers and films .
R.P. SCHERER CORP. , based in Troy , Mich. , began trading preferred stock under the symbol SCHCP .
The $ 1.4375 Series A preferred stock is convertible at the rate of 1.0593 common shares for each preferred share .
The company produces soft gelatin capsules for the pharmaceutical and nutritional supplements industry and develops drug formulation and delivery systems .
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission gave its staff the authority to allow Consumers Power Co. to return its Palisades nuclear power plant to service after a 10-month shutdown for safety work .
The reactor has been idle since last May 19 when turbine problems triggered an automatic shutdown , said Joseph Fouchard , an NRC spokesman .
Inspectors found three key safety-related valves failed to operate properly that day .
Mr. Fouchard said the reactor shutdown `` culminated a history of operating problems '' at Palisades , on Lake Michigan near South Haven , Mich. .
A spokesman for Jackson , Mich.-based Consumers Power said , `` We 're pleased .
It brings the plant one step closer to restart . ''
He said the company is `` confident '' that the NRC staff will allow the utility to restart the plant once Consumers Power has satisfactorily completed certain tests .
The commission voted 5-0 to authorize its staff to permit a restart after the staff reported on improvements in plant maintenance .
Peter Lund , president of CBS Inc. 's four owned and operated television stations , resigned to become president of New York-based Multimedia Entertainment , a unit of Multimedia Inc. , Greenville , S.C. .
Mr. Lund is succeeding Myron B. `` Mike '' Weinblatt , who will remain at Multimedia Entertainment as a senior executive in charge of certain undisclosed development projects .
Mr. Lund , a 10-year veteran of CBS , was president of CBS Sports before being named president of the TV stations division in December in a reorganization of the company 's broadcasting operations .
Mr. Lund , 46 years old , said he is leaving CBS `` with mixed emotions -- my 10 years here have been terrific . ''
At Multimedia Entertainment , he will oversee production and distribution of the unit 's programs , which include `` The Phil Donahue Show . ''
A company spokesman said a successor to Mr. Lund had n't yet been named .
Stuart B. Opotowsky was named vice president , tax , for this company with interests in insurance , tobacco , hotels and broadcasting .
Mr. Opotowsky , formerly a tax partner in a New York law firm , succeeds the late Stephen Schwartz .
Stephen C. Savage was named a corporate vice president and general manager of the newly formed electrical products division of this Singer Co. spinoff that makes sewing machines and furniture .
Mr. Savage was formerly a managing director at Scovill Inc. .
Christopher T. Linen and Richard T. Morgan were given the additional titles of corporate vice presidents of this publishing and cable television company .
Mr. Linen is president and chief executive officer of Time-Life Books Inc. and Mr. Morgan is president and chief executive officer of Scott , Foresman & Co. , both subsidiaries of Time .
VIRGINIA BEACH FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION -LRB- Virginia Beach , Va. -RRB- -- Betty Anne Huey , a Virginia Beach community leader , was elected to the board of this thrift , filling a vacancy created by the death of her father , Sidney S. Kellam , who was the association 's founder .
SCANDINAVIAN AIRLINES SYSTEMS , or SAS , will defer for several more months a decision on whether to switch its order for 12 new airplanes to AIRBUS INDUSTRIE of Europe from MCDONNELL DOUGLAS CORP. of the U.S. .
Ulf Abrahamsson , SAS 's vice president for fleet planning , said the carrier wants to study more carefully offers from the two aircraft builders .
He said SAS also wants to determine the outcome of talks that could lead to the liberalization of air travel between the U.S. and Scandinavia .
SAS hopes to receive approval from U.S. authorities to fly to an unlimited number of American destinations , instead of the four U.S. cities it currently can serve .
But Mr. Abrahamsson denied that SAS was trying to use the jet order to pressure the U.S. .
SAS signed a letter of intent last December to purchase 12 McDonnell Douglas MD-11 jets for an estimated $ 1.6 billion .
But in January it received a proposal from Airbus that it buy the European consortium 's A-340 jets .
It said then that it would make a final decision by late March .
However , Mr. Abrahamsson said Friday that the decision will be put off for `` a number of months . ''
The new planes , which would be delivered in the early 1990s , are to replace SAS 's fleet of DC-10s , which at decade 's end will total 11 .
FALCON CABLE SYSTEMS CO. declared an initial quarterly distribution of 53.75 cents on partnership units , payable May 15 to units of record March 31 .
The Pasadena , Calif.-based limited partnership that owns cable television systems had its initial offering in December 1986 .
It has 5.8 million units outstanding .
Italy 's unadjusted industrial production fell in January 3.4 % from a year earlier but rose 2.4 % from December , the government said .
ASAMERA INC. said it has agreed to sell three million common shares to raise about $ 40.9 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- .
The Calgary , Alberta-based oil and gas and mining company said the shares will be bought by Merrill Lynch Canada Inc. , for resale to the public at $ 13.625 each .
Details about the proceeds were n't immediately available .
The company said the offering is subject to all necessary Canadian and U.S. regulatory approvals , and that a preliminary prospectus was filed Friday .
GUILFORD MILLS INC. sold $ 75 million of 6 % debentures priced at par and due Sept. 15 , 2012 , according to Bear , Stearns & Co. , chief underwriter .
The securities are convertible at a rate of $ 44.25 of debentures for each common share .
The Greensboro , N.C.-based maker and seller of knit fabrics will use proceeds to pay debt and for general purposes .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday , the company 's common shares closed at $ 35.125 , down 25 cents .
American Cablesystems Corp. said a subsidiary agreed in principle to acquire a cable television system in the Los Angeles area from Heritage Communications Inc. for $ 15.5 million .
The subsidiary , American Cablesystems of California Inc. , proposed to buy a system that serves eight communities in Los Angeles County and has about 12,000 subscribers , the parent said .
Upon completion of a final agreement , the transaction is subject to approval from the municipalities involved .
American Cable Systems has more than 425,000 subscribers in Massachusetts , New York , Florida , Illinois and California .
Heritage is a Des Moines , Iowa-based cable TV and communications concern .
Morrison Knudsen Corp. said a unit received a contract valued at about $ 200 million to operate a West Virginia surface coal mine for 11 1/2 years .
The award was made by a unit of Algoma Steel Corp. Ltd. , Sault Ste. Marie , Ontario .
Morrison Knudsen , an engineering and construction concern , said the contract contains an option for a 10-year extension that , if exercised , would increase the value of the agreement to $ 385 million .
Morrison Knudsen said production will begin at the mine later this year .
Gone are the days when the U.S. could quietly enjoy looking at East Asia as its foreign-policy trophy case .
The new Japans -- Taiwan and South Korea -- were thriving economically .
China had shunned the Soviets and befriended Washington at small cost to Taiwan .
A year ago , Washington came out of the Philippines mess smelling as sweet as that country 's fresh democracy .
Now , however , foreign trade strains , political turmoil in South Korea , the Philippines ' growing pains , China 's turn back toward Communist orthodoxy and Moscow 's new diplomatic efforts in the area suddenly have created what State Department officials call `` the new East Asia challenge . ''
One problem is that economic growth in much of the region has n't been accompanied by political maturity .
The U.S. challenge is to help prevent its friends ' growing pains from becoming geopolitical nightmares .
`` We 've got to be prepared and look ahead , '' says Sen. Alan Cranston -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , chairman of the subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs .
The U.S. must stress to leaders like South Korean President Chun Doo Hwan that long-term stability can only be ensured through democracy , not by force .
It must increase its quiet diplomatic pressure on East Asian states like Taiwan and South Korea to adjust their currencies and open their markets or risk U.S. protectionism that could cause political strains .
`` We are in a transitional phase , '' says Richard Holbrooke , formerly a top State Department official and currently a managing director at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. .
`` The economies in the region have been the strongest in the world , but political stability must be maintained or their economic successes will suffer . ''
He says the U.S. should focus its efforts on areas where it can have the most impact : helping South Korea create democracy and assisting the Philippines in defending it .
South Korea is approaching what the U.S. hopes will be its first peaceful transition of power in February 1988 , just seven months before the Summer Olympics there .
Both the government and the opposition have refused to compromise on election reform .
The U.S. has thus far balked at pressing the government too hard , fearful that too quick a shift to full democracy could itself be destabilizing .
But unless it does so , President Chun is likely to create a succession scenario that leaves the leadership under the military 's influence .
American officials believe long-term stability in the Philippines can only be ensured through more economic and military aid .
`` The country needs some pump priming , '' says J. Brian Atwood , a former State Department official who is now president of the National Democratic Institute .
Mr. Holbrooke believes banks should move quickly to sort out the Philippines debt problems to open doors for more foreign investment and borrowing .
Mr. Atwood believes more weapons and funds for the military also are necessary : `` If there is going to be a single source of instability , it will be the loyalty of the military . ''
Trade tensions are a growing concern .
`` If we get into a broad-front trade war , it could slow everyone down and change the political climate dramatically , '' a State Department official says .
U.S. protectionist moves against Asian countries could slow economic growth and breed anti-Americanism in the region .
A senior official says the U.S. needs to stress that it will n't accept only a marginal appreciation in the South Korean and Taiwanese currencies against the dollar at a time when the Japanese yen has appreciated quickly .
Though Japanese products have become more expensive in the U.S. , there has n't been a corresponding narrowing of the U.S. trade deficit because , in many cases , South Korea and Taiwan products , which do n't have the same price disadvantage , have taken their place .
The Communist powers in Asia also present challenges .
Washington must lower its expectations of China as Beijing becomes more wary of Western ways .
U.S. officials believe China could assume a more neutral position between the two superpowers , particularly if Beijing 's rising star , Vice Premier Li Peng , a Soviet-trained engineer who favors strong economic central planning , takes over as premier as many expect .
Moscow has n't scored the huge diplomatic success it is seeking with Beijing , but U.S. officials worry about Mikhail Gorbachev 's proclivity for unexpected diplomatic actions .
In Mr. Gorbachev `` we are facing a creative chess master , '' says Mr. Atwood .
`` He is willing to move into new areas and take risks , be creative and keep us off balance . ''
COMBINED INTERNATIONAL CORP. increased its quarterly dividend to 60 cents a share from 56 cents , payable May 26 to stock of record May 12 .
The Chicago-based insurance holding concern also declared a 2-for-1 stock split , subject to shareholder approval of a doubling in authorized common shares to 120 million and the creation of 25 shares of a new class of preferred stock .
The company had 32.9 million shares outstanding at Dec. 31 .
Holders are to vote at the April 23 annual meeting .
ON-LINE SOFTWARE INTERNATIONAL INC. , based in Fort Lee , N.J. , sold $ 40 million of 6 1/4 % convertible debentures priced at par and due March 15 , 2002 , head underwriter Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. said .
The securities are convertible at a rate of $ 27.61 of debentures for each common share .
Proceeds will be used to repay bank debt incurred in the acquisition of certain assets of Martin Marietta Corp. and to increase working capital .
On-Line markets software for International Business Machines Corp.systems .
In over-the-counter trading Friday , On-Line common closed at $ 22.25 , down 50 cents .
Transamerica Corp. said it agreed to sell its group insurance operations to Chattanooga , Tenn.-based Provident Life & Accident Co. .
Last month , the two companies canceled a previously reported letter of intent covering acquisition of the group operations .
They cited a disagreement over terms , but said talks would continue .
The previous terms were n't ever disclosed .
The transaction is expected to be completed by May 1 .
The insurance and financial services concern said the sale to Provident Life is structured as a reinsurance transaction , under which Provident will assume responsibility for an estimated $ 400 million of policies and other liabilities .
Transamerica said it would record a $ 75 million net gain on the sale .
But it said the gain would be largely offset by a charge to cover a change in accounting for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs being made by its Transamerica Life Cos. unit .
The company said the accounting change reflects a desire to `` state our books as conservatively as we can . ''
Separately , Transamerica said that its board authorized the buyback of as many as 2.2 million common shares , or about 3 % of its 72.7 million shares outstanding .
The planned stock buyback is in addition to a previous buyback authorization , under which the company still plans to acquire as many as 1.5 million shares .
The company said the buybacks will be used for employee benefits and stock-option plans .
FEDDERS CORP. sold 1.5 million shares of $ 1.75 convertible exchangeable preferred stock at $ 25 each , according to Bear , Stearns & Co. , the chief underwriter .
The shares are convertible at a rate of $ 9.50 of preferred for each common share .
In addition , the preferred shares will be exchangeable after two years , at the company 's option , for its 7 % convertible debentures due 2012 .
Proceeds will be used to retire a note payable by Fedders to its spun off subsidiary , Nycor Inc. , to retire bank debt and for general purposes , including possible acquisitions .
Peapack , N.J.-based Fedders , through its Fedders Air Conditioning USA Inc. unit , makes and sells air conditioners , mainly for the residential market .
In composite trding on the New York Stock Exchange Friday , Fedders common closed at $ 7.75 , up 12.5 cents .
Domtar Inc. said it expects its capital spending this year to total $ 838 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- , up 76 % from $ 475.2 million spent in 1986 .
The construction materials and pulp and paper concern said in the prospectus for a proposed $ 100 million debenture offering that its recent $ 330 million purchase of Genstar Corp. 's U.S. gypsum wallboard business accounted for much of the increase .
Domtar also expects to spend $ 247 million this year on expansion of its fine-paper mill in Windsor , Quebec .
The first phase of the $ 870 million project is expected to be completed by the end of the year .
The company also plans to spend $ 36 million this year at its newsprint mill in Dolbeau , Quebec , as part of an $ 85 million project to change the plant 's pulp operations to a new process .
Engelhard Corp. said it plans to invest more than $ 50 million to build a petroleum-catalyst manufacturing facility in Venezuela .
The maker of specialty chemicals and metallurgical products said the project would be a joint venture with Quifoven-Engelhard C.A. , a Venezuelan company in which Engelhard has a 40 % stake .
Engelhard said it planned to increase its stake in the Venezuelan concern to 80 % over the next few years .
The new facility would make 20,000 metric tons a year of catalysts for use in the oil industry , the company said .
The catalysts are used to convert heavy crude oil into lighter crudes and petroleum products .
Engelhard said it plans to export 65 % of its production , mainly to Latin American countries .
RENT-A-CENTER INC. said its board declared a 3-for-2 stock split , payable April 20 to shares of record April 3 .
The operator and franchiser of appliance and furniture rental outlets said the stock split is its second ; it had a 3-for-2 split in March 1986 .
The Wichita , Kan. , company has n't ever paid a cash dividend .
Bud Gates , president and chief operating officer , reiterated that the company expects to report record earnings and revenue for fiscal 1987 , ending July 31 .
In fiscal 1986 , it earned a record $ 9.9 million , or 89 cents a share , on record revenue of $ 138.5 million .
Computer Sciences Corp. said the National Aeronautics and Space Administration will award it a contract that will add about $ 25 million a year to its current computer services work for the agency .
Computer Sciences will provide engineering and analysis services to the Mission Operations and Data Systems Directorate at Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt , Md. .
The new contract will consolidate the company 's work under three separate NASA contracts that currently total about $ 40 million annually .
The computer services concern said the contract , expected to take effect Nov. 15 , could last 10 years if all options are exercised , and could total $ 1 billion .
About 25 % of contract revenue would go to subcontractors , primarily the Ford Aerospace & Communications Corp. unit of Ford Motor Co. , Computer Sciences said .
In your tongue-in-cheek article on Atlanta as the site of the 1988 Democratic National Convention -LRB- page one , Feb. 13 -RRB- , you described the Carter Presidential Center , noting that it `` houses the papers of the last Democratic president . ''
It is assumed , for the sake of the efforts and aspirations of the delegates to the convention , that the author meant `` the latest Democratic president . ''
Or does he expect the Democrats to go the way of the Federalists , of which John Adams was the last to achieve the presidency ?
As an Atlanta native , recently exiled to Chicago , I could not help but wonder at your qualifications for judging barbecue .
While you ferreted out such political hot spots as Manuel 's Tavern -LRB- in the finest journalistic tradition -RRB- , it boggles the mind that you missed the famous second state capital : Harold 's Barbecue at 171 McDonough Blvd. in Southeast Atlanta .
Or Sprayberry 's Barbecue in Newman , 30 miles south of Atlanta off Highway I85 .
While , as you note , the taxi problem deserves immediate attention , Atlantans do tend to take barbecue more seriously , and we rate our native recipes over those of other , less refined , Southern states .
In the controversy on these pages over who should be enshrined in the Rock 'n' Roll Hall of Fame -LRB- arts page , Feb. 2 ; letters , Feb. 19 -RRB- , the terms `` rock 'n' roll '' and `` rock '' were often used interchangeably .
There is quite a difference .
True rock 'n' roll is the music generated and performed during the rock 'n' roll era , primarily from the mid-1950s to the very early 1960s .
On the other hand , `` rock '' is a generic term given to the music of the kids in any subsequent era : surf rock , hard rock , acid rock , heavy-metal rock and so on , with rock 'n' roll being the first generation of such music .
All inductees into the Hall of Fame should be from the rock 'n' roll era .
If performers from soul , blues , surf and other genres are to be included , the title of the institution should be the Rock Music Hall of Fame .
HAKO MINUTEMAN INC. said it completed its initial public offering of 675,000 common shares at $ 10.50 each .
The Addison , Ill. , -based maker of floor and carpet care equipment and chemical cleaning and coating products said net proceeds will be used to repay debt , increase the size of its Addison plant , expand engineering and research facilities , purchase equipment and for general corporate purposes .
Chicago Corp. is lead manager of the underwriting syndicate .
Frank B. Hall & Co. reported a narrower fourth-quarter loss and said its auditors qualified its financial statements because of two pending lawsuits .
For the fourth quarter , the insurance-brokerage company posted a loss of $ 26.3 million , compared with a loss of $ 87.4 million in the year-earlier quarter .
Revenue rose 11 % to $ 99.3 million from $ 89.4 million .
Latest results included $ 24.2 million in losses from discontinued operations .
During the quarter , the company decided to sell its unprofitable claims adjusting and automobile dealer insurance services operations .
Year-earlier results included a charge of $ 85 million , mainly stemming from losses at its discontinued Jartran Inc. truck-rental unit .
For the year , the company had a loss of $ 22.5 million , compared with a loss of $ 190.5 million in 1985 that included $ 192 million in charges for Jartran and other discontinued operations .
Revenue rose 8.4 % to $ 390.9 million from $ 360.5 million in 1985 .
A spokesman for Hall said Touche Ross & Co. , the auditors , qualified the company 's financial statements because of uncertainty over the outcome of the lawsuits .
In the first suit , New York State 's Superintendent of Insurance is seeking $ 140 million in damages because of alleged fraud in the collapse of a Hall unit , Union Indemnity Insurance Co. .
In the second suit , a unit of Mutual of Omaha Insurance Co. is seeking damages of $ 150 million from the company in a dispute over reinsurance agreements between the two concerns .
With regard to the lawsuits , Hall said it has `` meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend '' itself .
Joseph W. Ostrow , formerly executive vice president , director of communications services , of Young & Rubicam Inc. , was named executive vice president , corporate director of media , of this advertising concern .
He suceeds Frank J. Gromer Jr. , who retired .
Brock Hotel Corp. said it reached a preliminary agreement to acquire the operating restaurants of Monterey House Inc. , Houston , for $ 10 million to $ 12 million .
The hotel and restaurant chain said the agreement covers 61 restaurants in the Southwest .
Monterey House is operating under the protection of Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code , permitting the company to do business while it works out a plan to pay creditors .
Brock said its agreement is subject to approval of the bankruptcy court in Houston .
Separately , Brock said it expects a profit in 1987 .
In 1986 , Brock had an operating loss of $ 6.8 million and net income of $ 29 million , or $ 7.41 a share .
In your front-page article about Arthur L. Williams -LRB- Mar. 4 -RRB- , you said I have been `` ordained '' as an `` unofficial spokesman '' for the insurance industry .
I have not been `` ordained , '' and I speak only for myself .
My research , which often involves criticism of insurance practices I consider improper , is intended for the benefit of the public .
The research I have conducted on the Williams organization during the past six years has been independent , as has my research on other insurance topics .
The opinions I have expressed about the organization are mine , as are the opinions I have expressed about other insurance topics .
My research has been motivated by outrage concerning the tactics of the organization .
I believe it is against the public interest for part-time representatives to advise consumers on a financial service as important as life insurance , for life-insurance policies to be replaced indiscriminately , for an organization to make its relatively high-cost insurance appear low in cost through deception , and for competitors to be intimidated with threatening letters .
Don Bolles , an investigative reporter for the Arizona Republic , was not murdered on June 2 , 1976 , as you reported in the lead of a front-page article last Feb. 23 .
Don Bolles was wounded on June 2 , 1976 , and succumbed to those wounds 11 days later .
InterDyne Co. said it agreed to supply a unit of Zenith Electronics Corp. with tape drives and other memory systems .
The maker of computer peripherals said it estimates total value of the contract will exceed $ 10 million in 1987 .
InterDyne said the contract covers more than one year , but declined to disclose details .
Glenview , Ill.-based Zenith 's computer unit will use the InterDyne products in manufacturing equipment for the U.S. government , InterDyne said .
The Quebec government authorized Hydro-Quebec , the provincially owned electric utility , to increase its rates by 4.6 % effective May 1 .
The rate increase will apply equally to residential , commercial and industrial customers of the utility .
Hydro-Quebec had sought approval for an average 4.6 % rate increase but had proposed that the residential rate rise 4.9 % and other rates 4.4 % .
The government said that a uniform rate increase would be fairer to small consumers .
The utility said it expects an additional $ 109 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- in 1987 revenue from the rate increase .
Hydro-Quebec earned $ 303 million on revenue of $ 4.73 billion in 1986 .
Grumman Corp. received a $ 109.1 million Navy contract for EA-6B aircraft .
General Dynamics Corp. was awarded a $ 67.9 million Navy contract to develop improved submarine machinery .
Morton Thiokol Inc. was issued a $ 61.4 million Navy contract for rocket motors for Standard missiles .
Boeing Co. received Air Force contracts totaling $ 22.1 million for anti-satellite system development services and for electronic equipment for B-52 aircraft .
Texas Instruments Inc. received an $ 11 million Army contract for laser range finders and test equipment .
The Institute for Defense Analyses won a $ 10.8 million Army contract for research and analysis .
Alexander Cockburn 's Viewpoint column last week erroneously suggested that Anne Henderson Pollard had been convicted along with her husband , Jonathan , of spying for Israel against the U.S. .
In fact , Mrs. Pollard pleaded guilty only to conspiracy to receive embezzled government property and unauthorized possession of classified documents .
-LRB- See : `` Viewpoint : Israel 's Pollard Scandal : Arrogance , not ' Dual Loyalty ' '' -- WSJ March 19 , 1987 -RRB-
James G. Cairns Jr. was elected to the board of this hotel and restaurant chain , increasing membership to eight directors .
Mr. Cairns is president , financial institutions group , at Hallwood Group , a Cleveland and New York-based merchant banker that restructured Brock Hotel .
CHILDREN 'S DISCOVERY CENTERS OF AMERICA INC. -LRB- Monroe , Conn. -RRB- -- Richard A. Niglio was named chairman and chief executive officer of this operator of child-care centers .
Mr. Niglio , 44 years old , succeeds James DeSanctis , who is leaving the company to pursue other interests .
Mr. Niglio was formerly president and chief executive officer of Victoria Station Inc. , a San Francisco-based restaurant chain .
Arnold Diamond , president of Children 's Discovery Centers , is also leaving the company .
A successor for him has n't been named .
DE LAURENTIIS ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC. -LRB- Beverly Hills , Calif. -RRB- -- Stephen R. Greenwald , 46 years old , was named to the newly created post of chief operating officer of this motion picture concern .
He continues as president of the company 's corporate division .
Yasser Arafat sends him magazines .
Ronald Reagan sends him a typed list of all his film roles .
Moammar Gadhafi sends him a book .
Ferdinand Marcos writes back to him .
So does Lee Iacocca and a Saudi Arabian king .
No , it 's not Frank Sinatra .
The recipient of all this attention is 52-year-old Henry Lohrengel Jr. of Kansas City , Mo. , who has spent most evenings for the past 17 years deciding who among the rich and famous he would like to contact .
And -- with the exception of Farrah Fawcett and Ayatollah Khomeini -- the rich and famous seem happy to answer .
Mr. Lohrengel works days as a mail clerk .
But at night , he becomes a paparazzo , a photographer of celebrities .
That job , however , carries him no farther than his living room and the recliner in front of his television set .
By his side is a tripod with a camera and a cable that ends in a plunger .
When a celebrity comes on the screen who captures his fancy , `` I squeeze the trigger , '' he says .
He then sends the photograph to the celebrity -- and waits .
Almost all his subjects autograph the picture and send it back to him , sometimes accompanied by books and magazines and whatnot . -LRB- He 's still waiting to hear , however , from Ms. Fawcett and the Ayatollah . -RRB-
Just a few of his most prized contacts include Lucille Ball , Imelda Marcos and Elizabeth Taylor .
A photo he sent to actress Ingrid Bergman was returned with an autograph -- and a second photo of Ms. Bergman .
`` She thought -LRB- mine -RRB- was a bit fuzzy , '' he says .
His approach never seems to fail .
`` I 've got a lot of millionaires and even a few billionaires , '' he says , not to mention `` a lot of knights and dukes . ''
Mr. Lohrengel says few people besides his mother and co-workers at the Army Corps of Engineers are familiar with his collection , which includes more than 1,500 photos stuffed into albums , shoe boxes and closets .
One day , however , he hopes to donate his work to a museum .
Though he refuses to name a favorite , Mr. Lohrengel admits to framing one picture , which hangs in his living room .
It is a signed photo of Ronald Reagan as he appeared in the film `` Prisoner of War , '' which Mr. Lohrengel says he saw on television in 1980 , when Mr. Reagan was running for president .
But why does n't he use a more recent photo ?
`` I do n't really watch him that much '' anymore , he says , `` because I already have '' a good picture of him .
Financial regulators closed several thrifts and banks over the weekend , including a Texas savings and loan association with $ 1.4 billion in assets .
Vernon Savings & Loan Association , Vernon , Texas , was closed and nearly all of its assets and deposits were transferred to a newly chartered institution to be run by federal regulators .
The Texas S&L commissioner closed Vernon after finding that the thrift was insolvent and had `` substantially dissipated its assets through unsafe and unsound practices . ''
Vernon was a state-chartered institution with nine offices in Texas and one office in Oklahoma .
The new institution , of the same name , will be headquartered in Dallas and begin operations today under management appointed by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board , which took over the failed thrift .
The Bank Board said that 96 % , or $ 1.3 billion , of Vernon 's loans were more than 60 days delinquent .
The Bank Board said that Vernon dissipated its assets by paying excessive compensation and dividends to its major officers and shareholders , and purchasing a beach house and five airplanes for the use of executives .
In the past five years , Vernon 's assets increased more than tenfold , the Bank Board said .
The association 's growth was fueled by solicitation of high-cost brokered deposits and so-called jumbo certificates of deposit .
`` Most of the proceeds of the association 's deposit solicitation campaign were used to fund large speculative acquisition , development and construction loans , '' the Bank Board said in a release .
Separately , the Bank Board closed First Federal of Maryland , Hagerstown , because of insolvency .
It had assets of $ 115 million .
The thrift 's four offices will reopen today as branches of Columbia First Federal Savings & Loan Association , Washington , D.C. , which took over its insured deposits .
First Southern Savings Association of Jackson County , Pascagoula , Miss. , also was closed over the weekend because it was insolvent .
First Southern was a state-chartered stock association with $ 50 million in assets and three offices .
First Southern 's insured deposit accounts were transferred to Magnolia Federal Bank for Savings , Hattiesburg , Miss .
The Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corp. provided funds to assist in the acquisition of Bayou Federal Savings & Loan Association , New Orleans .
First Federal Savings & Loan Association , also of New Orleans , acquired Bayou Federal , which had $ 26 million in assets .
It was the seventh FSLIC-assisted transaction this year .
Morocco State Bank , Morocco , Ind. , was closed by state regulators and reopened on Saturday as a branch of DeMotte State Bank , DeMotte , Ind. , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said .
Morocco had assets of $ 15 million and deposits of $ 14 million .
On Friday state banking authorities also closed Madill Bank & Trust Co. , Madill , Okla .
Its two offices will reopen today as branches of First American National Bank of Tishomingo , Okla .
Madill had total assets of $ 37 million when it was closed Friday by state banking authorities .
First American will assume deposits of about $ 37 million in 7,200 accounts .
New City Bank , Orange , Calif. , was closed Friday by state banking authorities .
Its offices will reopen today as branches of Colonial Bank , a newly chartered national bank also in Orange .
New City had assets of about $ 21 million .
The latest closures bring the number of banks to fail this year to 50 .
Robert McFedries Jr. , director , mergers , acquisitions and divestiture , was named to the additional post of vice president in the executive department of this chemical concern .
In addition , Mr. McFedries will continue as director , portfolio investments , and director , investor relations .
-LRB- `` U.S.
Budget official urges that more money be put in circulation ' to fill the pipelines. ' '' -- Business Page item -RRB- :
Full pipelines are fine , we all agree ,
But the still , small voice of the taxpayer asks :
`` Who 's going to pay the piper ? ''
-- George O. Ludcke .
When for tranquility I 'm striving .
Accused of recluse driving .
-- Arnold J. Zarett .
THE SCANDAL SURROUNDING New York-based defense contractor Wedtech Corp. has set the stage for congressional reviews of the Small Business Administration 's controversial 8 -LRB- a -RRB- procurement program .
The program , which takes its name from the law that authorizes it , allows minority-owned businesses to obtain federal contracts without competitive bidding .
The SBA awarded a total of $ 3 billion in such contracts last year .
This week , Rep. Nicholas Mavroules -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , who chairs a subcommittee of the House Small Business Committee , will introduce legislation to revamp the 8 -LRB- a -RRB- program to reduce the potential for abuse .
`` The goal is to preserve a worthwhile program , while addressing some obvious problems through meaningful reform , '' an aide to the congressman says .
At the same time , the Senate Small Business Committee is considering holding hearings later this spring that could lead to similar legislation in that chamber .
The Wedtech case has rekindled debate about the 8 -LRB- a -RRB- program , which since its inception in 1968 has been plagued periodically by allegations of abuse .
The most recurrent problem has been the establishment of `` front companies '' ostensibly owned by minorities but in reality controlled by whites .
In a 1979 investigation , for example , the SBA found that 20 % of the 1,500 companies then participating in the program either were n't minority-controlled or were n't disadvantaged .
Misuse of funds has also been a problem .
One company that obtained 8 -LRB- a -RRB- contracts later bought a racehorse that caught a cold and died .
THOUGH THE ABUSES have been real , they have tainted the program 's reputation to a degree that many feel is unwarranted .
`` The interest in the program is usually triggered when something negative is in the air , '' says Gordon G. Alexander , the Washington , D.C. , representative of a business group , Black Corporate Presidents of New England .
`` That 's unfortunate because these businesses are putting dollars into the economy . ''
Misunderstandings about the program also stem from the lack of any studies about its effectiveness in creating successful minority-owned businesses .
Of the approximately 3,900 companies that have participated in the program , 915 have `` graduated . ''
But it is n't known how many of those graduates survived once they were forced to bid for work .
The success rate should become clearer in the next month or so , when the staff of the Senate Small Business Committee is expected to complete a survey of 8 -LRB- a -RRB- graduates .
A little over a year ago Wedtech was considered one of the program 's success stories .
The company had grown from a small machine shop into a major maker of pontoons , engines and other equipment that provided jobs for 1,200 workers in the economically devastated South Bronx .
Over the years , Wedtech got $ 250 million of defense contracts under the 8 -LRB- a -RRB- program .
BUT LAST YEAR , state and federal prosecutors began investigating questionable company payments to politically connected law firms and consultants .
A special prosecutor is still investigating lobbying on Wedtech 's behalf by former White House aide Lyn Nofziger .
Eventually , Wedtech officials admitted bribing government officials , paying off unions , forging invoices to the government and defrauding shareholders .
In December , the company sought court protection from creditors under the bankruptcy laws , halted operations and dismissed its workers .
Under new management , the company has since rehired about 280 workers and resumed limited production .
The legislation proposed by Rep. Mavroules is intended to eliminate the potential for many of the abuses attributed to Wedtech , while simultaneously strengthening SBA policies aimed at ensuring that young minority companies in the program ultimately can stand on their own .
On the side of preventing abuses , for example , the bill would increase fines for individuals who set up front companies to $ 300,000 from $ 50,000 .
It would sharply limit the number of political appointees at the SBA who make decisions about 8 -LRB- a -RRB- awards .
And it would bar SBA employees from owning stock in 8 -LRB- a -RRB- companies .
On the business-development side , the legislation would double the length of time a company could participate in the program to 14 years .
More significant , it would establish a three-phase process for weaning the company from dependence on the program .
INITIAL REACTIONS to Mr. Mavroules 's bill generally have been favorable .
`` I think it would go a long way to preventing future Wedtechs , '' says Mr. Alexander , the representative of the black corporate presidents group .
Adds Ella Mae Horse , an organizer of the National Native American Chamber of Commerce : `` I think it can only help the minority contractors . ''
The Republican response to the Mavroules bill has been more qualified .
Massachusetts Rep. Silvio O. Conte , the ranking Republican on the Mavroules subcommittee , says he supports the provisions cracking down on abuse .
But through an aide , he expresses reservations about doubling the participation period .
The aide says Mr. Conte intends to submit a bill of his own that would make significant changes in the 8 -LRB- a -RRB- program , including eliminating the role the SBA plays as a middleman between procuring agencies and contractors .
Still , Mr. Conte says through a spokesman , `` We think the time is right for 8 -LRB- a -RRB- reform .
We view it in one way .
Mr. Mavroules views it another way .
We 're sure we can reach a compromise . ''
Representative spokesmen for the town of Washington were saying after the president 's Thursday evening news conference that it was workmanlike .
Sounds a lot like the real world to us .
If so , the rest of the country should welcome the president , the politicians and the press back to the daily work of making this country move in a forward direction .
There has been legitimate reason to wonder recently where we were all going .
The cover of last week 's New Republic headlined an article by Gail Sheehy : `` Is Reagan Senile ? ''
This is a partisan but not entirely off-the-wall question in light of Mr. Reagan 's past several months -- major prostate surgery in January , the breaking of the Iranamok story , the president 's extraordinarily inept news conference about the affair , months of staff turmoil at the White House .
It was cause to wonder .
The country learned something important Thursday evening : The fellow answering the White House press corps ' questions is n't senile .
The senile-president hurdle was a large impediment to Ronald Reagan 's forward progress .
That hurdle is now behind him .
One more remains : the North-Poindexter hurdle .
Thursday someone asked Mr. Reagan if at any time he had been told about or knew about the diversion of Iran-related funds to the contras .
He said : `` No .
You would have heard me . . . if I had been told that at any time . ''
When Messrs .
North and Poindexter have immunity , they will either affirm or demolish Mr. Reagan 's position .
If they affirm , then Iranamok 's political dimension , despite some residual damage , is over .
The Reagan presidency will be free to move forward .
Notwithstanding the news conference 's great interest in the Iran affair , other subjects came up -- the budget , taxes , SDI and the ABM treaty , Nicaragua .
It would be a sign of renewed community health if Washington were now able to focus its energies on the substance as well as the surface of these issues .
We have come more and more to wonder whether the townspeople of Washington would rather deal with real issues that inhere in public policy or whether they would just as soon pirouette across the political surface of public events .
There seems to be something about Ronald Reagan that creates an abiding interest in whether he personally will `` stumble '' over various policy matters .
Certainly the nation 's interest should be larger than zero in whether the president `` stumbles . ''
But the nation should also know more about Mr. Reagan 's Thursday night assertion that the Soviet Union had no intention in 1972 of letting its own missile-defense plans be constrained by the language or legal standing of the ABM treaty .
Similarly , the president renewed his promise to veto `` tax-rate increases . ''
Tax rates in the new tax code are of course what House Speaker Jim Wright wants to raise to solve Congress 's struggles with budget reduction .
Others in Washington do n't much care where new revenues come from .
Below the dancing politics of the budget , however , are substantive issues many people would surely be interested in .
The current budget is essentially a zero-sum accounting game , pitting special-interest coalitions against each other for what money is available .
Again , we do n't doubt that the degree of the president 's steadfastness against taxes is itself a fascinating personal story .
But the larger issue Mr. Reagan is raising here is whether the federal sector has arrived at the outer limits of its responsibilities and must now redeploy those duties among itself , the states and the private sector .
If Congress can n't let go , if it insists on some funding for all of its creations with `` new '' revenue , Washington will sink back into the swamp of special interests it 's lived in for 15 years .
Beyond strategic defense and the budget , there is much else of importance to occupy the productive efforts of the president and Washington .
There is trade friction with Japan , international monetary policy and debt management , the question of whether the U.S. wishes to integrate its financial and securities markets into the global market or withdraw behind a wall of regulations .
There is the future of the farm-crop support system and the need for clarity on the issue of whether a second communist state off the U.S. 's southern border matters or is irrelevant .
Getting past the Iran affair , in short , is a precondition to getting the U.S. moving forward again .
The president 's news conference was a much-needed step in that direction .
On Friday , the U.S. Food and Drug Administration gave formal approval to the AIDS drug called AZT .
This effectively means that any doctor may prescribe AZT , subject to availability , for any patient suffering from AIDS or its related diseases .
The FDA 's approval culminates one of the most dramatic episodes in the history of U.S. regulation of medical science .
In the new language of drug approval , AZT was `` fast tracked . ''
It was shoved through a regulatory-approval system that could n't find a way to serve both the needs of the dying and the needs of bureaucracy .
When AIDS became the biggest medical story of our time , the bureaucracy ran out of excuses and the federal government made sure that any drug showing real medical benefit would be sped through the regulatory apparatus .
The result is Friday 's approval of AZT .
And now tomorrow , the Food and Drug Administration should announce its approval of tissue plasminogen activator , or TPA. TPA is a bioengineered substance that is fed intravenously into a heart-attack victim .
It seeks out the victim 's blood clot and dissolves it , thereby renewing the critical flow of blood to the victim 's heart and reducing destruction of the heart 's tissue .
In tests it has worked for many heart-attack victims .
It should be approved .
In saying the FDA should approve this drug `` tomorrow '' we do n't mean pretty soon .
We mean tomorrow , March 24 , 8:30 a.m. .
Two years ago this week , the New England Journal of Medicine reported that a multicenter test of heart-attack victims and TPA had been abruptly halted that February by officials at the National Heart , Lung and Blood Institute .
They stopped the test because TPA was proving nearly two times as effective at opening clotted arteries -LRB- recanalization -RRB- as streptokinase , a drug that is already approved by the FDA .
In its New England Journal article , the study 's doctors wrote : `` Tissue-type plasminogen activator can lead to recanalization . . . without the risk , cost or delay associated '' with streptokinase .
That was two years ago .
According to the American Heart Association 's most recent annual figures , some 1.5 million Americans will have a heart attack ; more than 500,000 will die of their heart attack .
What possible reason can have justified denying TPA to those among this extraordinarily large number who would have benefited from it ?
Why has AZT been approved while TPA has n't been approved ?
AZT can have significant toxic side effects , but AIDS patients are willing to take that risk .
TPA in recent studies has been associated with stroke caused by bleeding into the brain among 1 % to 2 % of the trial 's patients .
Surely many heart-attack patients would willingly assume that risk , just as seriously ill people accept low percentages of risk with serious surgical procedures .
And over time , physicians will learn to reduce and manage such risks .
Indeed , back in October 1985 a medical panel advising Blue Shield of California said TPA should be recognized `` as acceptable medical practice . ''
Ten days ago , the FDA announced that within three months it would codify rules to speed the availability of promising experimental drugs .
This important breakthrough in regulatory common sense may bring enormous benefit to this country 's most seriously ill people .
But Friday 's approval of AZT shows that large needs do n't have to wait for new rules .
With well over a thousand Americans dying daily of heart attacks , the need for TPA is large and immediate .
Political Washington may be inching forward , but the stock market , well , what can you say ?
It raced across the 2300 border Friday , closing at 2333.52 .
There had been fears that Friday 's witching hour would cast a pall on this progress .
It all reminds us of a young friend who spends hours with a difficult video game called Ultima III .
The difficult trick is to get four of your men through endless horrors until each one reaches a level of strength adequate to carry them on to victory .
Defeat from Ultima 's monster can be immediate and swift .
This brave young fellow would consider nothing else , of course , than to press cautiously forward .
To the players staring now at 2400 on the Big Board , take heart .
A Canadian parliamentary committee proposed that credit-card issuers use a uniform method of calculating interest on credit-card balances .
The committee , in a report to Parliament , also urged the government to apply pressure to banks and other credit-card issuers to lower their `` excessive '' rates .
But it said ceilings on interest rates should n't be imposed at this time .
Canada 's minister of state for finance , Tom Hockin , welcomed the committee 's report and said the government would act soon to enact some of the measures proposed by the House Commons Finance Committee .
The committee said its proposed standard method for calculating interest on credit-card balances should allow for a grace period , the period within which any credit extended may be repaid without incurring interest charges .
The method would allow any partial payment to be credited toward the interest-bearing balance .
And it would recognize the timing of payments , so that a payment made one day late would n't lead to financing charges for a full month .
The committee also called for wider and uniform disclosure of credit-card interest rates and other card terms to `` improve the information consumers have about pricing '' and promote competition .
Of 34 cards examined by the committee , annual interest charges in mid-March ranged from 10.25 % to 28.8 % .
But the committee said that the numerous methods used to calculate interest and other fees makes it difficult for card holders to compare costs .
Although the committee did n't recommend interest-rate ceilings be enforced immediately , Reginald Stackhouse , a Progressive Conservative committee member , said ceilings could be imposed by Parliament as `` a last resort . ''
Committee Chairman Don Blenkarn called on Canada 's major banks to lower immediately their Visa and MasterCard rates by three percentage points , which he said was equivalent to a drop in rates announced recently by Toronto-Dominion Bank , Canada 's fifth largest bank .
In Toronto , a spokesman for Royal Bank of Canada , Canada 's largest bank , said , `` We feel our rate at the present level is competitive and acceptable . ''
He said Royal Bank charges an 18.6 % annual rate on its Visa credit-card holders ' balances outstanding .
Secretary of State Shultz is crying wolf in warning of a crisis if Congress cuts the administration 's proposed $ 20 billion foreign-affairs budget for fiscal year 1988 .
While it is too early to know how Congress will react , it is clear that given its need to meet the Gramm-Rudman deficit target , Congress is unlikely to approve more than this year 's foreign-affairs budget of $ 17.3 billion and may cut even deeper .
The current level is adequate to cover the most urgent needs , but only if Congress and the administration are willing to break loose from political constraints and allocate the limited funds to the most deserving programs .
Last year Congress lopped $ 4.2 billion off the administration 's proposed foreign-affairs budget of $ 21.5 billion without anything very serious happening .
While there were some substantial reductions within the foreign-aid programs that constitute more than three-fourths of the foreign-affairs budget , these cuts were more severe than necessary since neither Congress nor the administration was willing to take the political heat of cutting back the $ 5.3 billion going to Israel and Egypt .
Congress cut the largest slice -- $ 2.8 billion -- from security assistance .
This includes foreign military sales -LRB- FMS -RRB- loans , military assistance , economic assistance for security-related purposes , and smaller programs for foreign military training and peace-keeping operations .
The greater part of the $ 2.8 billion saving , however , is more illusion than reality .
While on the face of it Congress cut FMS financing $ 1.7 billion , this reduction was taken by eliminating $ 1.8 billion in Treasury-rate financing .
Untouched were the $ 3.9 billion in concessional credits offered at subsidized rates , which are usually 2.5 % to 3 % below the cost of money to the Treasury .
This is a shell game at the expense of the taxpayer .
While the cuts look good in the short run since total outlays are reduced and the budget balance is helped , over the long run deficits will be larger because of lower receipts .
The shift to concessional financing marks a further departure from the economic criteria that should be used to establish a country 's need for military aid and the degree of concessionality it receives .
This year and under the proposed 1988 budget , for example , Greece and Spain , countries whose economies have in the past been judged strong enough to pay the Treasury rate , will receive concessional loans .
Another worrisome trend is the increasing reliance on grant military aid .
This is the most expensive form of military aid and was virtually eliminated during the Carter administration .
Yet last year Congress approved $ 900 million in grant military aid , the highest level since the end of the Vietnam War .
For fiscal 1988 , the administration is requesting $ 1.3 billion .
This shift toward grants and concessional loans partly reflects an effort to compensate for reduced FMS financing by offering better terms .
The shift also aims to avoid increasing the debt burdens some countries incurred when they took on large FMS loans financed by the Federal Financing Bank at high interest rates .
As annual repayments on those loans become a serious burden for some countries , the clamor for debt relief has increased and defaults have dissipated the `` Guaranty Reserve Fund '' once maintained against such defaults .
Israel has the largest FMS debt burden -LRB- $ 1.1 billion in fiscal 1988 -RRB- but it is essentially relieved of repayment since it receives economic-supporting assistance in the form of cash aid that is sufficient to cover its payments .
Moreover , since payment of all of the $ 1.8 billion provided annually in new FMS financing is forgiven -- making it , in effect , a grant -- Israel is not building up any new FMS debts .
Egypt , like Israel , is not required to repay its $ 1.3 billion in new military aid .
Only part of its $ 800 million in economic-supporting assistance , however , is in cash .
This means that after meeting $ 500 million in payments on past military loans , Egypt has little U.S. economic aid left to support its economic development .
The Reagan administration has been searching for a debt-relief formula that would not trigger a general assault on the U.S. Treasury .
Outright forgiveness has been rejected as too costly .
The administration also rejected refinancing the $ 18 billion in outstanding FMS loans financed by the Federal Financing Bank because of the risk that it would open the door to refinancing the rest of the bank 's $ 150 billion in outstanding , mostly domestic , loans .
As an alternative , the administration has proposed a `` restructuring '' of outstanding high-interest FMS loans that would bring interest rates down to the current 7 % to 8 % range .
This proposal would bring near-term relief on interest payments , but the deferred interest would be added to the principal balance and would come due at the end of the payment period in 10 to 20 years .
The borrowing countries would then face massive balloon payments that many might not be able to pay .
The administration is also offering countries that can afford to do so the option of pre-paying their high-interest FMS loans .
This seems more likely to help the countries least needing relief -LRB- such as South Korea , Thailand , Greece and Spain -RRB- than those whose debt burdens are the most onerous .
The prospect that some countries will take advantage of the option to pay off their outstanding high-interest loans has near-term advantages for budget estimates .
The 1988 budget , for example , assumes that the administration will be able to manage the `` restructuring '' so that the positive effects of prepayments will override the negative effects of reduced interest payments , giving a positive $ 26 million .
This is in contrast to estimated shortfalls of $ 770 million in 1987 and $ 1.7 billion in 1989 .
Such are the government 's ingenious schemes for manipulating deficit estimates .
Of the administration 's proposed $ 20 billion foreign-affairs budget for 1988 , $ 15 billion would go to foreign aid .
Of that $ 15 billion , 38 % is for development aid , up from the administration 's request of 33 % last year .
This is due largely to a $ 435 million increase for multilateral development banks . -LRB- Bilateral development aid remains essentially unchanged at $ 3.3 billion . -RRB-
While this shift in favor of development aid appears to reflect a departure from the administration 's past emphasis on security-related aid , it is probably more a response to Congress 's tendency to cut security assistance more severely .
Moreover , while the administration is requesting $ 1.4 billion less in security aid than last year , the saving is offset by greater concessionality .
Outright grants increase from 75 % to 85 % and all FMS financing is at concessional interest rates .
Under Democratic leadership , Congress is not likely to favor an increase in security aid at the expense of bilateral development aid .
The greatest cuts are likely to be made in security assistance and a proposed substantial increase for multilateral development banks -- a proposal that Rep. David Obey -LRB- D. , Wis. -RRB- , chairman of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee , said earlier this month `` does n't stand a chance of a snowball in hell . ''
Although it is unlikely to increase military grants by nearly 50 % , as proposed by the administration , Congress might be tempted to go along with some increase in grants as well as greater concessionality in FMS loans , especially if the outlay effects can be masked by prepayments of past FMS loans .
But greater concessionality is a move in the direction of higher costs and prolonged dependency -- exactly the wrong direction for our security-assistance program .
Instead , Congress should hold the line by rejecting any increase in security assistance , especially in grants , and by requiring that concessional FMS financing be offered only where economic criteria justify it .
Lacking any broad consensus on the purposes of foreign aid and unwilling to take on domestic supporters of key recipients such as Israel , Egypt and Greece , Congress is unlikely to give the administration much leeway in allocating the available funds .
If , as seems all too likely , Congress cuts foreign aid again while maintaining current earmarks , it will further distort a program in which aid to Israel and Egypt equals U.S. bilateral and multilateral aid to the rest of the world .
But this is to be expected of a foreign-aid program that lacks a coherent rationale and is largely devoted to satisfying the efforts of special interests to protect the aid levels of a few favored countries .
While congressional pressures on overall aid levels , coming largely from the budget and appropriations committees , have forced some overdue cuts , few knowledgeable persons in either the administration or Congress would argue that the resulting program represents a sound allocation of the limited resources available .
Little is likely to be done about this in the dying years of the Reagan administration .
But it is not too soon for Congress to initiate a comprehensive , critical reappraisal of foreign aid .
Mr. Shaw , who teaches international law at George Washington University , was chief of the military-assistance branch of the Office of Management and Budget from 1967 to 1980 .
The British colony 's stock market has displayed sharp volatility recently , after an easy climb to new heights earlier in the year .
In the first half of March , the Hang Seng index , which tracks 33 major stocks , plummeted more than 11 % from the record 2939.05 registered March 3 .
The string of losses ended abruptly Wednesday , though , when the indicator rebounded nearly 95 points , or about 3.5 % , in a single session .
The index edged lower again Thursday but surged 59.27 points Friday to close the week at 2780.55 .
Although earnings-related trading and overseas investors alike have played a role in the recent turbulence , essentially it is a transient , technical reaction to a February rally that saw the Hang Seng index climb nearly 15 % , Hong Kong securities analysts say .
Brokers as well as analysts expect stocks to settle into a steady upward trend again soon , backed by strong economic and financial fundamentals .
`` When the dust finally settles , we expect this market to pick up considerably , '' says David Harman , an equities manager at Berisford Cresvale -LRB- Far East -RRB- Ltd. , a British securities firm .
Following February 's solid performance , Mr. Harman says , `` a normal correction of some size could have been expected and , in fact , was overdue . ''
The correction was exacerbated by its timing , coming just as major companies were reporting last year 's results .
`` People usually sell into results '' in Hong Kong , Mr. Harman says .
Earnings for major companies listed on the colony 's stock exchange so far are up at least 30 % on average , in line with local expectations .
But news that several big groups were planning reorganizations and rights issues spurred profit-taking .
Among the companies seeking to raise money through such issues are Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corp. , Jardine Matheson Strategic Holdings Ltd. , Hongkong Land Co. and New World Hotels Ltd. .
The total cost of those proposed issues to shareholders will be about the equivalent of $ 897.3 million .
Rights issues contributed to the market 's recent slump by forcing local investors to skim profits from their portfolios to finance their portions of the issues , says Stuart Cook , a director of research at the Hong Kong office of James Capel & Co. , a British securities firm owned by Hongkong Bank .
`` Very soon now , the issues should be well and truly discounted in the market , '' Mr. Cook says .
Local investors , who have been pushing the market lower , often are quicker to adjust their positions than foreign investors , he says .
Many of market 's foreign participants started investing only in the past several years -- and since August in particular , when Tokyo 's stock market faltered .
So they are n't accustomed to the rapid pace of share turnover practiced by many local institutions .
`` This is one of the world 's busiest markets , '' a broker says , noting that the average daily turnover has increased about sevenfold from a year ago .
If Hong Kong 's average daily turnover of $ 182 million persists , in a year the equivalent of nearly three-quarters of the exchange 's total capitalization of around $ 60.24 billion will change hands .
Still , even though locals generally trade their portfolios more frequently , much of that liquidity derives from the recent foreign investment .
And because foreign institutions have been buying heavily , most were unwilling to take on additional shares to prop up the market when local selling knocked it lower this month .
Nor would the foreign houses sell -- and take losses -- at the market 's lower levels , so volume has declined even as the market 's volatility has increased .
The market should emerge from its current volatility soon and head higher , analysts say , noting that the economic fundamentals backing the market are among the strongest in Asia .
`` Hong Kong is the only market in Asia with rapidly improving fundamentals , '' says John C. Quinn , a director of Chase Manhattan Trust Co. 's Hong Kong office .
`` We do n't see any big downside risk here . ''
A chief factor supporting the market is Hong Kong 's strong , export-driven economy , which should grow at least 6 % this year , after swelling around 9 % last year , the colony 's government says .
The stability of the local currency , which is officially linked to the U.S. dollar at a rate of 7.8 Hong Kong dollars to one , and relatively low interest rates , which have bolstered local property prices considerably in the past year , are chief factors as well .
`` Fundamentally , Hong Kong is one of the strongest markets in the world , '' says Caspar Li , an assistant director of research at Vickers da Costa & Co. , a brokerage owned by Citicorp .
Mr. Li , though , cautions that unexpected political news always poses a threat to the stock market in the British territory , which will revert to Chinese sovereignty in 1997 .
When Chinese Communist party leader Hu Yaobang was removed abruptly from his post in January amid student demonstrations in China , Hong Kong 's stock market shuddered noticeably , dropping more than 3 % in one day .
London shares advanced to a record close Friday in moderate trading .
The 100-share index rose 26.5 points to 2017.5 , eclipsing Wednesday 's high of 2006.6 .
The Financial Times industrial-share index rose 17.3 to 1598.9 .
Investors ended a two-day respite that followed Tuesday 's unveiling of the British budget .
They expect retail issues to benefit from the budget 's personal-tax cuts and the drop in British banks ' lending rates , a trader said .
And the benefits of lower mortgage costs , resulting from falling interest rates , a drop in money supply and stable inflation , will be `` larger than the gains '' from tax cuts , the trader said .
Foreign demand , Wall Street 's performance Thursday and buying ahead of the new trading quarter , which starts today , helped as well , traders said .
The gold mines rose 12 points to 362.4 .
Meanwhile , Tokyo 's Nikkei stock average , which fell 60.74 points Thursday , rose 13.35 to 21,657.67 in heavy trading Friday on a late rally in heavy industrial and mining issues .
The stock exchange index rose 2.39 to 1860.70 .
Volume was about 1.5 billion shares , up from 1.4 billion Thursday .
The Tokyo exchange was closed Saturday as part of its regular holiday schedule .
Here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective , Geneva .
To make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 .
The percentage change is since year-end .
Charles T. Russell used to play trombone in Pittsburgh burlesque houses and with big bands in the Southeast .
He gave it up for banking , but he still knows how to attract a crowd .
Mr. Russell , the president of Visa International , a bank-owned credit-card association , recently urged members to consider halting sales of American Express Co. services in retaliation for the financial-service giant 's recent decision to begin offering a new cut-rate credit card .
Consumer groups denounced the plea as an illegal restraint of trade , and Congress is considering an inquiry .
But Mr. Russell is resolute .
`` Banks need to realize that there is a fox in the henhouse , '' he declares .
Visa and the 56-year-old Mr. Russell , who enjoys riding a Harley-Davidson motorcycle , have collided with consumers and Congress before .
Critics have long alleged that Visa member banks and other card issuers inflate interest rates .
As in past years , Congress is currently considering imposing rate ceilings , and some consumer groups think such a law would be an appropriate response to Mr. Russell 's recent harangue .
But the push in Congress has fallen short in the past , with Mr. Russell 's plain talk helping to lead the opposition .
`` He is more vociferous , but his statements probably reflect the general thought of the leading card issuers , '' says Pete Hart , a First Interstate Bancorp executive vice president .
Forewarned , First Interstate , which offers American Express Gold cards and travelers checks , is `` reevaluating our relationship '' with American Express , according to Mr. Hart .
Nothing rash is planned , he says , but the new card -- Optima -- is `` without question an intrusion into our business . ''
American Express and the banks are used to being allies rather than adversaries .
American Express cards generally do n't offer revolving credit , and banks have marketed them alongside their Visa and MasterCard cards , which do .
But Optima will compete head-on .
The card will cost $ 15 a year , in addition to the $ 45 that American Express charges for its regular card .
But it will extend 13.5 % credit .
The average Visa card also carries a $ 15 annual fee , but it has a stiffer 17.5 % rate , and several big banks charge even more .
American Express says only a limited number of existing customers will be offered the new card .
It does n't expect to issue many more than two million of them by 1990 , compared with about 100 million current Visa card holders .
It does n't know what the fuss is all about .
`` We are not basically in the credit business , '' says an American Express spokesman .
`` We 're going after a select market . ''
But the elite group that American Express is targeting has been a major source of bank credit card earnings .
Banks also believe that the American Express estimates are too modest , and some fear a plastic rate war .
`` They are n't going to fail , '' says Mr. Russell .
`` I do n't admire their ethics , but I certainly respect their knowledge . ''
He thinks American Express is misleading consumers , arguing that the Optima rate is closer to 18 % when the tie-in with the regular card is considered .
The flap comes at a time when Visa and its members have few other reasons to complain .
There are 22 % more Visa card holders world-wide than there were two years ago .
The group , which furnishes members with new products , system support and other services , is developing computerized cards and new links with automated teller machines .
For the banks , credit cards have been a growing source of profits , although tax changes and a growing consumer debt load portend possibly slower future growth .
In orchestrating Visa 's expansion , Mr. Russell has hit a few wrong notes with bankers and competitors .
Two years ago , he led the opposition against a merger proposal from rival MasterCard , an idea that some bank issuers of both cards thought would cut costs for them and consumers .
Mr. Russell says that the benefits were overrated and that a merger raises possible antitrust problems .
Instead , he has backed joint efforts , but some question his interest in cooperating .
Visa and MasterCard have been studying a national network to process retail store debit card transactions .
Last fall , however , Visa agreed to manage a large similar operation in California , and some MasterCard officials worried that the joint venture had been doomed .
Mr. Russell denies this .
His comments about American Express also have some precedent .
Last summer , as part of a campaign to blunt another budding competitor , Visa encouraged members to refuse to honor Sears , Roebuck & Co. 's Discover card in their automated teller machines .
Along the way , critics believe consumers have been cheated .
Card rates have n't fallen nearly as sharply as other interest rates since 1980 .
Current rates also reflect a jump in write-offs of bad credit card loans , which some banks have brought upon themselves through aggressive marketing .
Mr. Russell argues that usury laws depressed rates below market levels years ago , making current rates seem high .
He also says critics ignore administrative costs in their rate attacks .
The steeper write-offs , he contends , stem more from `` lax '' bankruptcy laws and heavy unemployment in the major oil-producing states than indiscriminate card marketing .
While Mr. Russell faces possible congressional and Justice Department investigations into his American Express comments , he says Visa welcomes the attention .
`` We 've nothing to hide , never had , '' adds the executive , who joined Visa in 1971 .
Like scores of musicians , he put down his horn when television arrived in the 1950s .
While hunting for a music-store job one day in 1953 , a rainstorm forced him to take cover at a branch of what is now PNC Financial Corp. .
The bank hired him as a collector in its installment loan department .
He married a former Pittsburgh radio singer who he used to back up in the band .
Weather permitting , Mr. Russell commutes every day from his Novato , Calif. , home in his single-engine airplane .
The 20-minute flight helps him forget his troubles .
`` You can n't think about anything else when you 're flying , '' he says .
`` When I fly home , I do n't have a problem anymore . ''
President Reagan plans to name Susan Liebeler to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit , the U.S. International Trade Commission said .
Mrs. Liebeler , an independent , is ITC chairman .
She was a professor at Loyola Law School in California prior to her appointment to the ITC in 1984 .
The appointment is subject to Senate confirmation .
Pan Am Corp. reported a $ 197.5 million fourth-quarter loss , worse than it had predicted , and said it expects to post a deficit in the first quarter .
The fourth-quarter loss included $ 65 million of charges , mainly because of certain start-up costs of the Pan Am Shuttle , which began hourly service in the Northeast corridor last October ; expenses related to the termination of leases of eight Boeing 747-100 aircraft ; and expenses related to Pan Am 's sale of its Pacific division to UAL Inc. , parent of United Airlines , in 1985 .
In the 1985 fourth quarter , Pan Am had net income of $ 241.4 million , or $ 1.79 a share , which included a $ 341 million gain from the Pacific division sale .
Without that gain , Pan Am would have reported a 1985 fourth-quarter loss of about $ 100 million .
In the 1986 fourth quarter , revenue declined 12 % , to $ 797.3 million from $ 906.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
In mid-February , C. Edward Acker , Pan Am 's chairman and chief executive officer , had said the company expected a loss of more than $ 400 million for 1986 , indicating a fourth-quarter deficit of more than $ 135 million .
He also had said that the company would be `` diligent '' in writing off costs , such as residual expenses associated with the Pacific division sale .
The airline blamed the year 's losses on recent weak airline travel in Atlantic markets caused by the American public 's concern over terrorism abroad and the Chernobyl nuclear accident .
The airline said that it would report a loss for the first quarter but that it would be `` substantially less '' than the $ 118.4 million deficit it posted in the first quarter of 1986 .
For all of 1986 , Pan Am reported a loss of $ 462.8 million , compared with 1985 net income of $ 51.8 million , or 45 cents a share .
Revenue declined 13 % to $ 3.04 billion from $ 3.47 billion .
Pan Am said its full-year results were hurt by foreign currency exchange losses of $ 46.8 million , primarily related to Japanese yen debt , compared with $ 11.1 million in 1985 .
A Pan Am spokesman said the airline is `` nearing completion '' of its previously announced arrangement for a new line of financing .
Pan Am said it has received a proposal from Citicorp Investment Bank for a $ 150 million credit line that will include a syndicate of other financial sources .
He said Pan Am currently has `` in excess of $ 150 million '' in cash .
Pan Am said that based on advance reservations , second-quarter traffic should be `` vastly improved '' from a year earlier .
Mr. Acker previously said Pan Am would take major steps to become profitable in 1987 , contingent on obtaining major reductions in labor costs .
Pan Am recently said it will slash its operating expenses as much as $ 275 million , including cutting 464 management positions , freezing management salaries and reducing other expenses under management 's control .
Pam Am has asked its five major labor unions to help cut labor costs 20 % , or an additional $ 180 million a year .
In seeking concessions from its unions , Pan Am has said the airline might sell the shuttle operation to help return to profitability .
Even with these measures , Pan Am still faces a number of obstacles as it seeks to control costs and find ways to repay massive debt tied to aircraft purchases .
At the end of 1986 , long-term debt totaled $ 830 million .
Although the airline generally is n't considered a likely merger candidate , AMR Corp. , the parent of American Airlines , has looked at Pan Am but recently said it would n't buy the company or the shuttle service .
Pan Am has refused to sell AMR its valuable North Atlantic routes .
Pan Am 's unions , meanwhile , are trying to find another merger partner for the company .
They have made their own cost-cutting proposals , but the two sides have n't reached any agreements .
Huge , billion-dollar leveraged buyouts -LRB- LBOs -RRB- were a major feature on the 1986 financial landscape .
This year , names like Viacom International Inc. and Owens-Illinois Inc. continue to steal headlines as tax-reform and takeover fears fuel LBO announcements and speculations .
Yet behind the headlines is the fact that well over 200 of the approximately 315 LBOs announced in 1986 were divestiture LBOs , in which overgrown conglomerates sold parts of their empires to division managers .
Where managers are resourceful and energetic , and believe in their capabilities as directors and owners -- rather than as employees -- LBOs have worked well .
After the glow of pride fades from lining up the numbers and putting the deals together , what can corporate managers expect to find as the new owners of their former company stores ?
One serious threat to success is the inability of some managers to make the transition from company men to entrepreneurs .
Others become so absorbed with cost cutting and debt reduction that they forget to reinvest in the underlying business .
Many managers also miss the abundant opportunities for reducing operating costs in areas where they have no technical competence , such as pensions , medical programs and insurance .
Substantial savings can be realized in each of these areas without reducing benefits or coverage .
But the biggest danger in going private lies in management becoming close-mouthed .
Many buyout groups react to freedom from quarterly earnings statements and shareholders by constructing moats around their companies .
Building real value , whether a firm is public or private , means not only communicating company strategy to employees but talking with outsiders as well .
In 1979 , I was a group president of Mead Corp. in charge of Virginia-based Stanley Furniture Co. Stanley was healthy but had not achieved its full potential as part of a big paper company .
When I studied the situation I quickly realized that Mead would be better off without the $ 120 million contributed by furniture and fabric sales , and that Stanley would be better off without Mead 's corporate structure .
Stanley no longer fit Mead 's strategy .
It was also clear to me that furniture divisions of large corporate entities usually did not perform well .
Therefore , Stanley 's managers opted for a leveraged buyout .
The risks our buyout group faced seven years ago were enormous -- personally and professionally .
None of us was wealthy .
We all had to take out second mortgages to help finance our investments in Stanley .
Interest rates had surged beyond 20 % and business was in its worst slump since World War II. Gone were the security , perks and resources of the parent company .
If the venture failed , the 2,000 jobs that supported the economy of Stanleytown , Va. , would disappear along with our investment .
But I was confident that a revitalized Stanley , even as a highly leveraged enterprise , could prosper .
As an owner I learned that we needed to do more than agree on management objectives -- we had to communicate our resolve to everyone working at Stanley .
This came to a head during an early planning session when a production manager asked what company policy was on a particular matter .
`` I do n't know , '' I said .
`` It 's our company now ; we have to create the policy . ''
From that point on we set in motion an open-door communications program to get both our managers and employees thinking like spirited owners .
This type of aggressive dialogue was n't necessary under corporate rules where everyone knew his place , but it was an essential ingredient in our new company .
I made a special effort to keep our banks informed of our progress , much the way the chief executive officer of a public company gives updates to securities analysts .
We discussed the results of marketing plans and new products with the banks and improved their feelings of confidence toward us at critical stages of our development .
Similarly , we kept the press , customers and local officials informed of company developments .
When I had been a division president I rarely had time to spend with retailers , but as a manager-owner it was important for me to keep customers informed of our long-range plans .
We also did n't forget Stanleytown .
Civic programs , such as scholarships and recreational facilities , were maintained and , in many cases , enhanced .
In essence , Stanley was a private company with a public profile .
Our dialogue with employees extended to company finances as well .
We opened the books to all managers and they in turn began to appreciate what cash flow was all about .
Soon , they were no longer talking about what they had to have , but about what they no longer needed .
We also set up performance incentives that reached well down the chain of command -- incentives based on long-term profitability , not just revenue growth .
Companies that undergo leveraged buyouts must learn quickly to cope with their problems in order to maximize cash flow and pay off debts without compromising growth .
Many of the executives in these newly created private companies will protest that they do n't have the time or resources to waste on communicating their goals .
But it is the obligation of management groups to talk candidly to employees and the outside world , especially during the early stages following a buyout .
That 's when the greatest opportunity exists to shape an LBO company into an entrepreneurial enterprise .
Mr. Timnick , former chairman and CEO of Stanley Interiors Corp. , is a principal of the New York-based private investment firm Clayton & Dubilier Inc. .
BANQUE DE L' UNION EUROPEENE said it signed an agreement with two institutions in the Soviet Union that is designed to aid the formation of joint ventures under new Soviet rules .
The French bank , an arm of the state-owned Credit Industrial & Commercial financial group , said it will work with the Soviet State Bank and the Bank for Foreign Trade to `` create a bilateral institution whose aim is to promote the creation of , and aid the functioning and finance of , mixed-capital companies in the U.S.S.R. . ''
Roy D. Hartmann said he will take early retirement as a Security Pacific Corp. vice chairman and chief of its California retail banking and real estate operations .
The bank holding company is expected to make the announcement today .
Sources said the duties of Mr. Hartmann , 59 years old , will be assumed by Robert H. Smith , vice chairman and chief operating officer .
Mr. Smith is considered the heir apparent to Richard J. Flamson III , chairman and chief executive officer .
Mr. Hartmann has worked for Security Pacific for 33 years .
A federal bankruptcy judge approved a complex bank-financing agreement for LTV Corp. that gives the company a new $ 100 million credit line .
Approval of the agreement between the Dallas-based aerospace , energy and steel concern and its 22-member bank group had been delayed since January .
The amended plan , approved by Judge Burton Lifland in New York Friday , resolves certain objections by LTV 's unsecured creditors and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. , a federal pension insurance agency that has taken over LTV 's four big steel pension funds .
Since last July , LTV has been operating under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code while it works out a plan to pay its debt .
One of the objections from the pension agency concerned that part of the financing agreement that repackages about $ 435 million of secured debt and letters of credit .
The original language in the financing agreement sounded too much like a formal , overall reorganization plan , the pension agency had said .
The court-approved agreement converts the $ 435 million of debt and letters of credit into a new revolving credit facility .
In approving the refinancing , Judge Lifland also signed an order in which LTV agreed to provide detailed information to creditors about many of its cash transfers .
The creditors had urged such a provision so they could monitor the agreement 's tight restrictions on how much profit LTV can funnel from its successful aerospace and defense unit to its troubled steel and energy products units .
LTV , in a statement , said it can use the $ 100 million bank line for borrowings and to cover new letters of credit .
Loan proceeds may be used by LTV to meet the needs of its units , the company said .
LTV said the agreement also provides a revolving credit of about $ 160 million from which letters of credit can be drawn .
LTV said the agreement improves its liquidity by adding $ 100 million to its cash balances , which totaled $ 612 million at the end of 1986 .
Also , conversion of the $ 435 million in secured debt into a revolving credit facility gives LTV the flexibility to repay and reborrow the funds as needed , the company said .
LTV shares closed Friday at $ 3 , up 25 cents , on volume of 2.9 million shares in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
Because hospitals represent the single largest expenditure in the U.S. health-care system , much of the current concern over burgeoning costs has focused on them .
Reviews of hospital utilization and radical changes in hospital payment mechanisms have been introduced to curb expenses -- but to little avail .
In 1986 , while general inflation was only 2 % , hospital expenses grew 8 % .
These cost-control attempts so far have ignored the important fact that most American hospitals are operated as private , nonprofit corporations that have no structural reason to be efficient .
Because they have no owners and no equity capital , nonprofits are freed from the scrutiny and interests of owners and the stock market .
Because they are not government-run , they are freed from taxpayers ' and legislators ' oversight .
In a study of comparable for-profit and nonprofit hospital chains , I found that the nonprofits have higher costs , spend more on labor and have a lower turnover per hospital bed than their for-profit counterparts .
Nonprofits also defer replacing their plant and equipment for longer periods , thus placing more of the burden of that replacement on the shoulders of future generations of users .
These inefficiencies are subsidized by taxpayers ' granting the nonprofits exemptions from most income , sales and , sometimes , real-estate taxes and by the ability of most nonprofit hospitals to borrow money at the cheaper interest rates of tax-exempt bonds .
Subsidies give nonprofit hospitals a substantial cost advantage over for-profits -- on the order of 3 % to 6 % of revenues .
This enabled the nonprofits in my study to have the same prices as for-profits and still have higher costs .
But , most important , I could find no difference between for-profit and nonprofit hospital chains in the amount of care given to patients who are uninsured or have low-paying Medicaid insurance .
Most of the 30 million uninsured patients in the U.S. are `` dumped '' on the public hospitals run by municipal , county and federal governments .
But as things now stand , it is not up to the for-profit hospital to provide care for the uninsured , any more than it is a supermarket 's responsibility to feed the poor .
The nonprofit hospital , on the other hand , has received a tax exemption primarily in exchange for treating those who cannot afford to pay for their health care .
Dumping by the nonprofits is a grave violation of this social contract .
But until we enact a system that guarantees payment for the care of uninsured patients , they will continue to be dumped on the public hospitals by the private hospitals , both for-profit and nonprofit .
Why do the nonprofit hospitals use their tax exemptions to subsidize higher expenses rather than to reduce prices or to provide greater services for the uninsured ?
Because nonprofit hospitals are dominated by powerful doctors , who structure them for their comfort and convenience by increasing the levels of support personnel and capital .
For example , many nonprofit hospitals have opened extra operating rooms so that their surgeons can operate between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. and not be forced to wait for an inconvenient early-morning , late-evening or weekend time slot .
Others have extra beds and staff so that a doctor can admit his patients at his convenience , rather than when an opening occurs .
I do not mean that nonprofits malevolently trade off the welfare of their physicians against the welfare of the uninsured , but rather that their physicians inevitably have a much more powerful voice in the day-to-day decisions made in running a hospital than do the poor or the society that subsidizes the nonprofit hospital .
The for-profit hospital , in contrast , has a powerful social voice in the form of equity markets .
If its costs are excessive , its returns will slump and more efficient competitors will enter the market .
Also , the for-profits do not have many tax breaks to cushion them from their inefficiencies -- even the investment tax credit was lost in the last wave of tax reform .
Some advocates of nonprofit hospitals claim that their higher costs result in higher quality -- a claim yet to be proved .
Others claim that only the nonprofit hospitals can generate the great medical advances from which we have all benefited .
But most nonprofits do no research .
It is mostly the teaching hospitals , affiliated with medical schools , that conduct research .
They represent only 17 % of U.S. hospitals , and some of them are run on a for-profit basis .
The claimed equivalence of research superiority and the nonprofit form is also undermined by the impressive discoveries made by for-profit companies in pharmacology , biotechnology , and medical equipment and devices .
The American hospital sector spent $ 181 billion in 1986 .
If all these hospitals -- nonprofit , for-profit and government -- had paid federal income taxes at average corporate tax rates , federal revenues of between $ 3 billion and $ 6 billion would have been yielded .
These revenues could then have been used for many purposes , such as funding those people without medical insurance .
Most important , the huge hospital sector would likely become much more efficient by its transformation to a for-profit , tax-paying entity , subject to the intense scrutiny of its owners .
Mrs. Herzlinger is McPherson professor of business administration at the Harvard University Graduate School of Business Administration .
Noranda Inc. said it plans to build a $ 125 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- sulfuric acid plant at its copper smelter in Rouyn-Noranda , Quebec , in an effort to clean up a major source of acid-rain pollution .
The plant is designed to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions at the smelter by 50 % , to 276,000 metric tons annually in 1990 from 552,000 in 1980 .
The plant will use gases produced by the copper smelter to produce sulfuric acid .
The Canadian government and the province of Quebec will each provide one-third of the project 's cost , with Noranda , a Toronto-based natural resources concern , paying the remaining one-third .
Noranda will repay the governments with interest under certain unspecified conditions .
The Noranda smelter , with smelting capacity of 960,000 metric tons a year , produces 50 % of Quebec 's emissions that can cause acid rain , according to a government official , and the project will result in meeting more than 20 % of the Canadian government 's target for acid-rain emission reduction in eastern Canada .
Canada 's environment minister , Tom McMillan , said that government aid to the project is part of Canada 's `` clean hands approach '' in trying to prod Washington to take more action to clean up U.S. sources of sulfur-dioxide pollution .
U.S. critics of Canada 's stand have said that Canada is n't doing enough to clean its own sources of the pollution .
Last week , President Reagan said he will ask Congress to approve a new $ 2.5 billion -LRB- U.S. -RRB- five-year plan to study new approaches to cleaning up the problem .
But environmentalists criticized the approach because it does n't actually involve an emission-control program at U.S. power plants , factories and other pollution sources .
The plant at Rouyn-Noranda will produce more than 350,000 metric tons of sulfuric acid a year but because of the distance to markets , Noranda said it expects a large operating deficit from the facility .
These costs plus Noranda 's share of capital will result in the company 's carrying about 70 % of the financial burden attached to the facility , the company said .
Construction is to begin immediately , with completion expected in late 1989 .
Affiliated Publications Inc. , in a move into the specialty magazine business , said it plans to acquire closely held Billboard Publications Inc. for $ 100 million .
Affiliated , parent company of the publisher of the Boston Globe , said it plans to buy Billboard 's capital stock from a shareholder group led by Boston Ventures Limited Partnership .
The acquisition suggests that Affiliated may be looking toward magazines as a possible new leg for the company .
`` It ensures us excellent management in the magazine industry for future expansion , '' said Daniel Orr , Affiliated 's vice president .
In addition to owning the Boston Globe , Affiliated also operates a small publisher and retailer of fine books and has a 45 % stake in a company involved in cellular telephone and paging systems .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange Friday , Affiliated 's shares fell 75 cents , to $ 47.25 .
Gerald Hobbs , president of New York-based Billboard , views the acquisition as a positive step for his company .
Billboard 's owners had been trying to sell the company when Affiliated approached them several weeks ago , said Mr. Hobbs .
`` The management of Billboard was anxious to ensure the continuation of the company 's growth and also to facilitate future acquisition plans , '' he said .
`` We needed someone who would be in it for the long run . ''
Billboard currently is exploring possible acquisitions in information-based fields , such as magazine publishing and database operators ; the company expects to make an acquisition before the end of the year , Mr. Hobbs said .
Billboard publishes eight specialty magazines , including Billboard magazine , a weekly that covers the entertainment industry , and Backstage , a news magazine for commercial film production and theatrical services .
The company also publishes 15 annual directories , owns the book publisher Watson-Guptill and electronically distributes information world-wide .
Specific terms of the acquisition plan were n't disclosed , but Affiliated said Billboard will be operated as a separate subsidiary .
Affiliated also said that under a separate agreement , certain members of Billboard 's present management plan to buy as much as 10 % of the equity in Billboard Publications following the acquisition .
Some analysts applauded Affiliated for the acquisition .
Kevin Gruneich , a vice president at First Boston Corp. , said some investors were concerned that Affiliated might spend too much money for an acquisition as it had built up a sizable cash position .
In December , the company sold six radio stations for $ 65.5 million .
But Billboard `` puts another leg on the stool , '' said Mr. Gruneich .
`` Affiliated is not only making a very good strategic decision by moving into specialty magazines , but they got it at a reasonable price . ''
In 1986 , Affiliated had net income of $ 66.1 million , or $ 1.85 a share , on revenue of $ 401 million .
Those earnings comprised profit of $ 39.8 million from continuing operations and $ 26.3 million from discontinued operations .
Per-share earnings were adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split paid in January .
Billboard had sales of $ 58 million last year and is expecting sales of $ 62 million in 1987 , said Mr. Hobbs .
The Transportation Department said USAir Group Inc. could acquire no more than 51 % of Piedmont Aviation Inc. pending final approval of the merger by the department .
The decision , while allowing USAir to continue buying Piedmont stock , still is a setback for USAir .
The airline had told the department that Piedmont had insisted , as a condition of the merger , that USAir offer to buy all Piedmont shares .
USAir already has begun a tender offer as part of its agreement to acquire the parent of Piedmont Airlines for $ 69 a share , or $ 1.59 billion .
USAir must place its Piedmont shares in a voting trust , but can instruct the trustee to vote them on the merger .
On other issues , USAir had proposed allowing Piedmont 's outside directors to decide how to vote the shares in the trust .
But the department said that on such issues , the shares must be voted proportionately with the shares USAir does n't own .
The ruling effectively denies USAir control of Piedmont until the department completes its review of the proposed merger .
The transportation agency , with the Justice Department 's support , rejected USAir 's application to acquire all of Piedmont 's shares , saying the arrangement would n't have sufficiently shielded Piedmont from USAir influence .
USAir had told the Transportation Department that , under the merger agreement , USAir may be required to pay Piedmont as much as an additional $ 21 million if USAir is n't able to buy all the Piedmont shares .
But the department said that in most merger cases it has restricted purchases to 51 % until the merger was approved .
`` USAir knew or should have been aware of our voting trust precedents limiting the amount of stock which could be acquired pending review of the underlying acquisition , and it assumed a risk when it agreed to the penalty , '' the department said .
A spokesman for USAir said the decision `` does not change our plans at all , and we are continuing our plans to acquire Piedmont . ''
In Winston-Salem , N.C. , a spokesman for Piedmont declined to comment .
In other action , the department extended until April 6 the period for those wishing to comment on Trans World Airlines 's application to create a voting trust to acquire 25 % of USAir 's stock .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Piedmont shares closed at $ 67.75 , up 12.5 cents , on volume of 1.1 million shares , and USAir shares closed at $ 44.75 , off 37.5 cents .
New York 's two largest futures exchanges , following a recent shift in leadership , are laying the groundwork for a merger , exchange officials said .
Members of the New York Mercantile Exchange and the Commodity Exchange in New York held private exploratory talks at an annual Futures Industry Association convention here late last week .
And officials said a recently formed joint merger committee will be stepping up efforts to examine the issue .
The ad hoc committee consists of four board members from each exchange .
The potential benefits of a merger would be enormous for both marketplaces , industry officials say .
A combined entity would give New York more visibility in an industry dominated by Chicago , they say .
That , in turn , would translate into far greater competitive clout than either the New York Merc or Comex now has , particularly in marketing new products , the industry officials say .
Further , the exchanges would save money by merging and , for traders , there would be a wider array of markets in which to participate , they add .
Currently , the New York Merc trades energy futures , along with platinum and palladium , while the Comex trades gold , silver , copper and aluminum contracts .
Merger speculation was fueled in part by comments made here by William M. Bradt , the New York Merc 's new chairman and a member of both exchanges .
Mr. Bradt , in public and private discussions , said pursuing the possibility of a merger is one of the leading items on his agenda .
`` I 'll be pushing and pushing and pushing for it , '' Mr. Bradt said .
Added Alan J. Brody , the recently elected chairman of Comex : `` There is a groundswell '' of support for a merger among Comex members .
Skeptics abound , however .
The idea of a Comex-New York Merc merger is n't new ; the exchanges have flirted with such a move on and off for nearly 10 years .
And some futures industry officials and traders , while conceding a merger makes sense on paper , question whether either exchange 's membership would ever agree to it .
`` Most traders are just too independent , '' argued James Kurt Dew , a consultant to the Comex .
Others contend that conflicting personalities and big egos will get in the way .
Nevertheless , there is a renewed sense of optimism among exchange leaders , especially at the New York Merc , where Mr. Bradt last week succeeded Michel D. Marks , chairman since 1978 .
Mr. Bradt is perceived by many as `` more flexible '' than Mr. Marks , said Lewis J. Horowitz , president of the New York Futures Exchange , a New York Stock Exchange subsidiary .
Mr. Brody , formerly Comex president and recently elected as the first full-time salaried chairman of the exchange , said that informal talks here resulted from the two exchanges ' `` commitment to making serious headway '' toward combining .
The joint merger committee will initially focus on several areas , including common clearing , floor facilities and trading systems , said A. George Gero , New York Merc treasurer and a committee member .
Mr. Bradt , who before his election was a member of the committee , said he sees `` more people willing to listen than ever before '' to merger prospects .
After a private dinner meeting with Mr. Bradt and other New York Merc officials , Fowler C. West , commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission , said that with Mr. Bradt 's apparent tenaciousness , `` there seems to be a new initiative '' in the merger area .
Mr. West added that he did n't foresee any regulatory problems with such a move .
Industry officials said any combination probably would be the first step toward a merger of all five New York exchanges .
The New York Merc , Comex , Coffee , Sugar & Cocoa Exchange and Cotton Exchange all occupy the same space at the World Trade Center , while the New York Futures Exchange is located adjacent to the Big Board a few blocks away .
Some industry executives stressed , however , that a combination of the five would face much stiffer opposition than a merger of the New York Merc and Comex .
And even with a merger , the combined New York Merc-Comex still would be dwarfed by the nation 's two largest exchanges , the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange , which together capture more than three-quarters of all U.S. futures trading volume .
Moreover , any merger would take time ; industry executives suggested it would take more than two years to work out .
Nevertheless , New York exchange leaders say they 're striving for a combination before a planned move to a new building , which is expected to be completed by about 1990 .
In the meantime , with the markets becoming more interrelated , there is an increased awareness of the benefit of such a move , exchange officials said .
And some futures executives say that newer , younger traders at the New York exchanges are not as opposed as some of the older members to breaking down exchange boundaries .
`` It will n't happen tomorrow , but it 'll be sooner than expected , '' says Mr. Horowitz .
The Philippines ' major creditor banks have accepted a proposal under which they may choose to receive some interest payments in the form of notes , sources close to the country 's debt talks said .
Their acceptance establishes an important precedent for future settlements with other debtor countries .
It also raises the accounting question of how banks will value such notes .
Philippine Finance Minister Jaime Ongpin and his country 's main creditor banks still are working to reach agreement on other issues in rescheduling more than $ 13 billion of debt , including $ 10.3 billion of medium-term and long-term debt owed to foreign banks and $ 3 billion of trade financing .
Talks on those issues will resume later this week .
The note proposal , which has drawn approving comments from U.S. Treasury officials , gives creditor banks the option to take payments covering the interest-rate margin on Philippine debt in so-called Philippine Investment Notes .
These notes , denominated in U.S. dollars and not paying interest , could be exchanged for local currency for investment in the Philippines ' debt-for-equity swap program .
Banks will be offered a slightly higher interest-rate margin if they accept the notes than if they take a cash payment .
The Philippines has proposed that the interest-rate margin for cash payments be 5/8 percentage point over the banks ' cost of funds , while the notes would have a face value equal to a one-point margin over the cost of funds .
But the margins have yet to be resolved .
Other debtor countries , eager to encourage debt-for-equity swaps and to limit cash payments on their debt in foreign currencies , probably will want to take advantage of an option such as the Philippines ' note proposal .
Meanwhile , because accounting principles have n't been established yet for the notes , banks that choose to take the notes likely will be on their own in either accepting them at par value or discounting them because they 're only exchangeable into Philippine pesos , a restricted foreign currency .
Major U.S. accounting firms are split on how to value the notes .
At the conservative end is Price Waterhouse , which audits major U.S. banks and would have them sharply discount the notes .
The more liberal view , opposing such a discount , is taken by the accounting firm of Arthur Young & Co. , which is a consultant to investment bankers advising the Philippines .
A spokesman for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York said : `` We hope the Philippine debt talks move toward a smooth conclusion . ''
But he declined to comment on the issue of the notes .
The Philippines and its bankers still have to resolve the question of interest-rate margins , and also have to agree who will monitor the Philippine economy once the country 's present International Monetary Fund program expires in the middle of next year .
Talks on these issues were adjourned over the weekend to allow some bankers to attend the Inter-American Development Bank 's annual meeting in Miami .
The talks will resume later this week , with the more-optimistic negotiators expecting an agreement before the weekend .
The abrupt departure of three Anheuser-Busch Cos. executives amid allegations of improper payments has dented one of the nation 's most carefully constructed corporate images .
Since the Budweiser Clydesdales first paraded to celebrate the repeal of Prohibition in 1933 , Anheuser-Busch has cast itself as a bastion of all-American wholesomeness .
Under August Busch III , the straight-laced chairman , president and great-grandson of the founder , the St. Louis-based company has crusaded against drunken driving and drug abuse , sponsored sports events and , as always , displayed the huge horses at parades and county fairs .
`` It 's a straight-arrow company culture , '' says a former Anheuser-Busch executive .
`` August Busch III does n't accept gifts from suppliers , and employees know that . ''
Thus the recent allegations of improper dealings with a now-defunct advertising and promotional agency , Hanley Worldwide Inc. , stunned employees of the tightknit brewing industry leader , and its competitors as well .
Joseph E. Martino , vice president , sales , of the company 's beer unit ; John C. Lodge , manager of national sales promotion events , and Michael A. Orloff , vice president of the beer unit 's wholesale operations division , abruptly departed Anheuser-Busch two weeks ago , during an internal investigation by the company .
Anheuser-Busch will n't comment on its investigation , except to say that it focuses on `` allegations of improper conduct by certain employees and suppliers . ''
At least some of the allegations came in disputed statements made more than a year ago in a bankruptcy court proceeding .
Nevertheless , the probe most likely will spawn new ethics rules at the big brewer , and a tightening of controls on promotional spending .
And Anheuser-Busch 's embarrassment could prompt other brewers to review practices in the high-rolling beer-promotion field , where spending will top $ 400 million this year .
Few employees better personified Anheuser-Busch 's clean-cut image than the three departed executives .
Mr. Martino and Mr. Orloff , both graduates of the University of Pennsylvania 's Wharton School , joined the company in 1979 as brand managers and soon hit the fast track .
After a stint as executive assistant to Dennis P. Long , the beer unit president and the No. 2 executive in the parent company , the 34-year-old Mr. Martino was seen by insiders as Mr. Long 's heir apparent .
Still single , with a girlfriend in St. Louis , he recently bought a large , Tudor-style home in a quiet St. Louis neighborhood of big lawns and long driveways .
Mr. Lodge , meanwhile , was sculpting a high profile for Anheuser-Busch in the fast-paced beer-promotion arena , where the company is the biggest spender by far .
As manager of national sales promotions events , he was breaking new ground for the company by working through black promoters and minority-owned promotional agencies .
He also was guiding Anheuser-Busch deeper into splashy concert promotions , such as last year 's Superfest tour , featuring the Temptations and other black and Hispanic groups .
`` He 's as clean-cut as you can get . . . real dynamic in preppie blazers and red ties , '' says Lesa Ukman , editor of Special Events Reports , a Chicago-based newsletter .
Adds a former Anheuser-Busch executive : `` All three of these guys are right out of pages of a study of yuppies . ''
But the company inquiry , which began a few months ago , changed everything .
The impetus apparently was a few minutes of murky testimony in the three-year liquidation case of Hanley Worldwide under Chapter 7 of the federal Bankruptcy Code .
The case continues in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in St. Louis .
As long as a year ago , Hanley 's bankruptcy trustee charged in a lawsuit filed in the court that St. Louis-based Hanley paid a car dealer $ 13,500 toward the 1982 purchase of a Porsche for Mr. Lodge .
The trustee contended in a subsequent court filing that the payment was made partly to induce Mr. Lodge to funnel business to Hanley .
Mr. Lodge 's attorney says that if the agency paid for part of the cost of the car , his client was n't aware of it .
The allegations against the other two executives are far more serious , and still more murky .
A review of the official tape recording of the bankruptcy court proceeding shows that in February 1986 , a former Hanley executive reluctantly repeated what he called `` hearsay '' about Mr. Martino and Mr. Orloff .
The statements were made under oath in answer to questions from lawyers involved in the case .
The former executive , William E. Bartlett , said he was told that `` fictitious invoices '' for $ 250,000 were sent to Anheuser-Busch , and that the money was split between Hanley 's owner , an associate of Hanley 's owner and Mr. Martino .
Under further questioning , he also told of `` hearsay '' that Mr. Orloff had received $ 25,000 .
The former executive said the source of the information about both Mr. Martino and Mr. Orloff was Hanley 's owner , Marvin Cotlar .
But Mr. Cotlar 's attorney , Milton P. Goldfarb , said Friday his client had made no such statements .
And Gerald A. Rimmel , the bankruptcy trustee , has said he found no evidence that Hanley made payments to either executive .
Thomas M. Walsh , an attorney for both Mr. Martino and Mr. Orloff , declined to comment .
Whatever the case , the three executives left within two days of one another .
While one or more of the executives may be cleared , the investigation 's ripple effects are likely to linger in the brewing industry .
Anheuser-Busch is n't the first big brewer to hit ethical shoals in beer promotion : Last November , Miller Brewing Co. , the No. 2 brewer , won a $ 1.9 million settlement from a now-defunct New York promotions agency .
Miller , a Milwaukee-based unit of Philip Morris Inc. , charged in a lawsuit in federal court in Milwaukee that the agency had used money that was supposed to be paid to sponsor auto races and other events to buy racehorses and furnish lavish residences .
`` We were getting bills for things we thought the promotions agency had already paid , '' says Alan Easton , Miller 's vice president of corporate affairs .
The stakes in beer promotion and advertising are rising so fast that some executives say effective controls are difficult .
Anheuser-Busch 's ad and promotional spending per six-pack has doubled since 1980 , according to Beer Marketer 's Insights , a West Nyack , N.Y.-based newsletter .
The company spent roughly $ 207 million on promotions in 1985 , according to Advertising Age .
And the big Midwestern brewers that dominate the industry often know little about the glitzy , fast-paced world of promotion .
`` The promotions business is one that needs to be watched carefully , '' says Miller 's Mr. Easton .
`` Our business is beer ; we do n't know much about things like racing and concerts . ''
Readers of this newspaper will remember a flurry of articles a few years ago about the negative images of businessmen on TV .
Some were excerpted from a 1981 Media Institute study that compiled statistical evidence that TV dramas and comedies portrayed businessmen as `` crooks , con men and clowns . ''
Others came from Ben Stein 's 1979 book , `` The View From Sunset Boulevard , '' and argued that the ubiquitous corporate villain was one of several systematic distortions found in the medium .
Has there been any improvement since then ?
Not according to a new film called `` Hollywood 's Favorite Heavy '' -LRB- airing Wednesday , 9-10 p.m. EST , on most PBS stations -RRB- .
Echoing these criticisms , narrator Eli Wallach explains : `` The businessmen you see portrayed on TV seem to make an awful lot of money , without ever having to work hard or produce useful products .
To succeed , all they seem to do is lie , steal , cheat , blackmail , even murder . ''
In addition to echoing past criticism , the film reenacts some of it .
For example , Mr. Stein 's book describes his unsuccessful efforts to pitch the idea of a TV series with a businessman hero .
The film opens with a staged conversation between Mr. Stein and Al Burton , an executive producer at Universal Studios , in which Mr. Stein halfheartedly pitches a show about `` a guy who is a venture capitalist , and the adventure each episode is starting some little company . ''
Mr. Burton passes , saying that the whole thing makes him `` yawn emotionally . ''
Then Mr. Stein pounces , with his familiar accusation : `` Do you think the problem is a businessman being the hero ? ''
The scene would be more persuasive if Mr. Stein did n't also seem to be yawning emotionally at his eight-year-old idea .
At any rate , his eight-year-old criticism still applies to plenty of contemporary TV shows -- especially crime dramas , for the simple reason that they require a constant supply of bad guys .
In interviews with prominent TV writers , producers and network executives , we learn two reasons why the businessman continues to be television 's villain of choice .
First , by default .
A writer for `` The A-Team '' claims that mobsters cannot be the heavies any more , because the networks do n't want to be accused of stereotyping Italian Americans .
`` You can n't say ' Mafia , ' '' he adds .
Other interviewees , such as a creator of `` Miami Vice , '' imply that any trace of ethnicity is a no-no : `` The easiest mark is to put some white-bread character in a three-piece suit who is a white-collar criminal . ''
Second , most viewers are considered too stupid to relate to less-obvious bad guys .
As a writer for `` The Fall Guy '' puts it , most writers and producers `` assume that their audiences are ' lumpen proletariat ' that are drooling and eating frozen dinners , not even heating them because they can n't master the microwave .
Yeah , they 're just sucking them until they get warm ! ''
These audiences `` are going to understand if you say business is bad . . . everyone 's going to say ' Yeah , right ! ' ''
Even if this description fit the average TV viewer , it would still beg the question : Why are businessmen seen as such obvious stock villains ?
One explanation might be that TV people themselves dislike business .
In his book , Mr. Stein suggests a bias on the part of Hollywood 's `` creative community '' against the pin-striped , ratings-obsessed `` suits '' from the networks .
He also hints that differences in culture , values and background might incline the crowd on Sunset Boulevard to take a dim view of America 's corporate elite .
Unfortunately , these interesting speculations do n't make it into the film .
Instead , we are treated to the spectacle of Mr. Stein browbeating the interviewees about `` ideological preferences . ''
And the film starts to feel outdated when Mr. Wallach explains : `` In the late '60s and early '70s , the mood of the country changed .
The Vietnam War , environmental crises and Watergate shook the nation 's faith in its institutions .
And TV reflected this new anti-establishment perspective . ''
Right on target , for 1979 or 1981 .
But this is 1987 , and TV has a new type of corporate villain : the lovable/hateable member of the family , such as J.R. on `` Dallas '' or Alexis on `` Dynasty . ''
`` Hollywood 's Favorite Heavy '' acknowledges the existence of these new villains , and admits that they contrast strikingly with the usual crime-drama villain , who brandishes a weapon or dumps toxic chemicals just long enough to get caught by the hero .
But it fails to do them justice .
In reply to the argument that popular culture has always used tycoons as heavies , the film points to melodramatic movies of the '40s and '50s , in which the wicked businessman was usually thwarted by a virtuous businessman .
It adds that these movies accepted the basic legitimacy of the business system .
Yet it draws no parallel between these older films and a show like `` Dallas '' -- which is nothing if not a melodrama , opposing the greedy , unscrupulous schemes of J.R. to the honorable practices of Bobby ; and expressing reverence toward the generation of Jock Ewing for having built a fortune out of mother wit , sweat and Texas dirt .
Since their inception in the early '80s , the prime-time soaps have dabbled in total corruption -- Bobby , Blake , Chase and Karen have each acted reprehensibly at times .
But soon enough , they have repented and gone back to their upright ways .
The producers know perfectly well that without these noble characters , their whole formula would collapse .
Without these pillars of goodness , all those satiny billows of evil would have no support .
`` Hollywood 's Favorite Heavy '' ends with a couple of sequences in which ordinary viewers talk about the prime-time soaps : a group of women in a beauty parlor , and a class of high school students under interrogation by Herb London , a dean at New York University .
The women demonstrate a keen grasp of how the soaps exaggerate wickedness for melodramatic , and sometimes comic , effect .
The high school students , on the other hand , express admiration for the amoral behavior of J.R. and his ilk , and declare that if they were in business , they would probably act the same way .
The film makers , Michael Pack and Dan Polin , told me that they consider this high school sequence to be the most interesting and revealing in the film .
Norman Lear is shown gasping with horror at it , and Messrs .
Wallach and Stein base their final statements on it .
Unfortunately , no former teacher like me can give any credence to a discussion in which an adult works so heavily at getting pliable young people to tell him exactly what he wants to hear .
The film would have done far better to pick up on the nuanced , amused remarks of the beauty-parlor women -- who , after all , could be the high schoolers ' mothers .
But then it would have had to offer its own statement about why TV has returned to the business melodrama , and that would have been a lot harder than simply repeating old criticisms .
Striking events are happening in Moscow .
Plays , films , literary works whose appearance would have been impossible a few years ago are now on the scene .
Andrei Sakharov returns from Gorky ; many other dissidents are released from the Gulag ; Mikhail Gorbachev speaks of having competition in elections to party positions ; and family businesses are made legal .
How fundamental are the changes these events portend ?
In `` The Waking Giant : Gorbachev 's Russia '' -LRB- Pantheon , 298 pages , $ 17.95 -RRB- , Martin Walker , the Manchester Guardian 's Moscow correspondent since 1984 , says that the situation is `` revolutionary . ''
More importantly , Mr. Gorbachev describes it that way as well .
As Mr. Walker puts it , the situation is driven by the emergence of a new class , well-educated , relatively prosperous , influential , frustrated by the inefficiencies and dreariness of Soviet life and keenly aware of Soviet backwardness .
This class wants to see the system reformed .
`` Reform '' is not `` revolution . ''
Mr. Gorbachev may indeed want some big changes ; at least he says some bold things .
He sometimes asserts that there is a need for flexible prices linked to demand as well as cost ; that farmers should be able to market their produce ; and that wages should be linked to personal -- and organizational -- performance .
But , as Mr. Walker observes , the system has little room for maneuver .
The party and bureaucracy resist , needed price increases could result in riots , and Mr. Gorbachev might go , as did Nikita Khrushchev , in a `` Putsch . ''
The economic system and its performance are of central importance , and Mr. Walker 's treatment of them is inadequate .
Soviet real national income did not grow at anything like the 62 % rate during the 1970s that Mr. Walker claims ; the improvements in the Brezhnev years were mostly over by the mid-1970s .
Contrary to Mr. Walker 's assertion , an arms race in space will definitely not boost the Soviet economy .
Mr. Gorbachev is clearer on this when he complains to Ronald Reagan that the American Strategic Defense Initiative is designed to drive the Soviet Union into bankruptcy .
The basic cause of Soviet economic malaise is the command structure of the economy , but the Soviets are also hurt , much more than Mr. Walker acknowledges , by the enormous share of resources taken by the military and related activities throughout the Soviet empire .
As Mr. Gorbachev tries to hold down military spending and shift resources into investment , Mr. Walker sees , plausibly , that the surface navy and the Soviet forces along the Chinese border will likely be most affected .
If Mr. Walker deserves good grades for his reportage of Kremlin personalities and the cultural scene , and -LRB- at best -RRB- an incomplete on economic matters , he flunks on geopolitics .
Here his stance is nominally neutral , but it is operationally favorable to the Soviets -LRB- or rather to his notion of what Mr. Gorbachev stands for -RRB- .
His arguments are depressingly familiar : The invasion of Afghanistan is just one of those things that empires do ; the `` For every Afghanistan there is a Vietnam '' syndrome .
The old Soviet fear of being surrounded by enemies compels the country to break out and dominate its neighbors .
Moreover , the West 's support for corrupt and brutal regimes in the Third World is the real reason for Soviet expansion there .
Of course we need to try to understand the Soviet Union better , but to those on the receiving end of Soviet bullets and bombs , whether directly or indirectly delivered -LRB- no hint at Soviet support of terrorists pops up in Mr. Walker 's book -RRB- , it is present Soviet behavior that matters most , not the terrible past that has warped its collective psyche .
Mr. Walker suggests that the West has an interest in maintaining the `` physical and territorial integrity of the Soviet state '' and that the failure of Mr. Gorbachev 's program might produce a collapse with consequent chaos -- a united Germany , a European crisis and , perhaps , general war .
So let us help Mr. Gorbachev , he urges .
We have been hearing this line from West Germany 's foreign minister , Hans-Dietrich Genscher , and we will hear more of it from others in coming months .
The problem with this line is that the Soviet system is all too stable ; that is , too resistant to change .
Help from the West simply makes it easier for its rulers to maintain their inefficient system .
Mr. Rowen is professor of public management at the Graduate School of Business and senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution , Stanford University .
Claudine B. Malone faced an unusual dilemma when she learned in mid-February that Dart Group Corp. was considering a bid for Supermarkets General Corp. .
For eight years , the 50-year-old teacher and management consultant from McLean , Va. , had served as an outside director on the boards of both companies .
And she realized the potential for a conflict of interest .
`` It was clear that I had to resign from one or more boards , '' she says .
So , after discussing her options with a lawyer , Ms. Malone resigned Feb. 28 from the board of Dart Group and its affiliate , Trak Auto Corp. , choosing to remain on the board of the company that became Dart 's target .
She is now `` a full participant in our deliberations , '' according to a Supermarkets General spokesman .
The Woodbridge , N.J.-based food retailer is mulling a $ 1.62 billion unsolicited takeover proposal that Dart made March 6 , as well as alternatives that include seeking another suitor .
Few directors are ever thrust into Ms. Malone 's position , but her decision strikes some experts as odd .
`` I would have gotten off both boards , '' says John M. Nash , president of the National Association of Corporate Directors .
`` She has a lot of information in her head about the acquiring company and there may be information there that may be useful to Supermarkets General in their defense .
I think she 's walking a very thin line . ''
Adds Barbara Hackman Franklin , a corporate director who heads the government and business program at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia : `` It sounds like an awkward situation at best . ''
Ms. Malone , who is black and serves on the boards of several other big companies , defends her decision .
`` It did n't seem to me that what 's in my head about the Hafts -LRB- the father and son who head the discount retailer -RRB- and Dart was that germane to this transaction , '' she says .
`` My conversations with the Supermarkets General people did not lead me to think I should resign from Supermarkets General 's board as well . ''
Moreover , Robert Haft , the 34-year-old president of Landover , Md.-based Dart and a former student of Ms. Malone 's , does n't consider her a traitor .
Instead , he seems to think of her as a potentially sympathetic ear on the Supermarkets General board .
He says Ms. Malone maintains `` a complete wall '' between her various board activities and provided no help on Dart 's bid .
But he adds that she `` understands our business operations and our abilities '' and `` our resolve to acquire a third retailing business . ''
Dart currently operates two discount retailing operations , Crown Books Corp. and the Trak Auto chain of automotive supplies stores .
Officials of Supermarkets General , which has indicated a strong desire to remain independent , say they never questioned her loyalty .
`` She resigned from the Dart board and she therefore has no conflict of interest , '' says the spokesman .
Ms. Malone , who teaches part-time at the University of Virginia 's business school , will n't say why Dart 's was the seat she gave up .
She says only that the choice was difficult : `` I had longstanding , good relationships with both groups , which I valued personally and professionally . ''
Not everyone would say that about the Hafts .
They have a reputation for putting companies into play and selling back stakes in their targets for a premium , a practice known as `` greenmail . ''
Last year , when Mr. Haft and his father , Herbert , made a bid for Safeway Stores Inc. , the nation 's largest supermarket chain , they were quickly rebuffed .
Safeway went private , and the Hafts made a profit of about $ 140 million on their stake .
Some analysts have speculated that Dart might be more interested in putting Supermarkets General into play than in buying it .
Currently Dart owns less than a 5 % stake .
Ms. Malone 's Dart and Supermarkets General ties go back to the 1970s , when she taught at Harvard Business School .
The elder Mr. Haft , Dart chairman , attended one of her seminars , as did Leonard Lieberman , chairman and chief executive officer of Supermarkets General .
Robert Haft took her course while studying for his MBA .
When Dart was looking for an outside director in 1979 , the younger Mr. Haft recommended his former professor .
Their relationship remained warm -- Robert Haft , at Ms. Malone 's invitation , spoke to one of her classes last fall -- though they have n't spoken since she left Dart 's board .
The daughter of dress shop owners in Washington , Ms. Malone has been involved in retailing most of her life .
Her first job was wrapping Christmas gifts for Raleigh Stores , a closely held chain of clothing stores in the Washington area .
Later , she returned to the company as controller .
A certified public accountant and a Harvard-educated MBA , Ms. Malone serves mostly on the audit and finance committees of the boards she has joined .
Last year she served on nine boards , including Limited Inc. , Campbell Soup Co. , Scott Paper Co. and Houghton Mifflin Co. .
According to 1986 proxy statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission , Ms. Malone received more than $ 93,000 in annual retainers for serving on the boards , plus additional fees of as much as $ 1,000 each time she attended a meeting .
Supermarkets General paid her $ 13,000 , plus $ 750 per board or committee meeting .
As an outside director and member of Dart 's audit committee , she earned $ 12,000 .
Trak Auto paid her a $ 10,000 fee .
Ms. Malone says she did n't set out to become a professional director .
But she started joining boards at a time when many companies were trying to add women and minorities .
`` Over time , '' she says , `` various relationships led to board opportunities . ''
Texas Air Corp. , moving to consolidate its diverse family of airlines , is facing resistance from employees on a growing number of issues , ranging from wages and work conditions to seniority .
The biggest trouble spot now is Eastern Airlines , where union and management have continued a war of nerves that began when the company last January requested pay cuts averaging 29 % .
Eastern executives recently met with representatives of the pilots and machinists unions and agreed to continue discussing labor-cost issues without reopening existing contracts .
But no concessions have been volunteered by the unions , which are taking new offensive measures .
Eastern pilots said they plan to put up picket lines in certain cities April 2 .
The pilots aim to protest not only Eastern 's call for wage cuts , but also newly imposed sick-leave rules , which the pilots maintain are in violation of the contract , and Texas Air 's transfer of certain Eastern assets , including planes and routes , to Texas Air 's nonunion Continental Airlines unit .
The Eastern pilots have also proposed broadening the jurisdiction of their labor contract to pilots at all Texas Air units .
Through its Continental Airlines unit , Texas Air also owns People Express , Frontier Airline and New York Air .
Eastern executives have n't responded to the proposal , and will n't comment on any meetings with union representatives except to confirm that they have occurred .
Eastern 's pilots are also holding informal organizing meetings with Continental 's nonunion pilots throughout the U.S. .
But getting Continental 's pilots to join a union will n't be easy ; many of them crossed picket lines during an acrimonious strike at Continental in 1983 .
`` We know it 's going to be tough , '' concedes Jack Bavis , chairman of Eastern 's pilots union , who is heading the effort to enlist Continental pilots in the union .
Eastern pilot union officials claim their efforts received a major boost last week , when Texas Air announced a possible new seniority plan for pilots .
Under the plan , Continental captains would be senior to pilots who were captains at People Express , and all other Continental pilots would be senior to all other pilots who worked for People .
This means that Continental pilots will have first crack at better routes and aircraft and access to more favorable layover points and trip lengths .
Thus , Eastern union officials view the former People Express pilots as most receptive to efforts to organize the entire force of Continental pilots .
Texas Air 's seniority plan will occur only if the corporate structure of People Express is merged with Texas Air , as the operations of People Express already have been .
A Continental spokesman said People Express pilots are treated somewhat less favorably only because their prospects for advancement were grim before the troubled company was acquired by Texas Air .
Still , a group of pilots already filed a lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court over the proposed seniority plan .
Meanwhile , other Eastern unions are no closer to resolving labor-contract issues raised by Eastern management .
Charles Bryan , the president of Eastern 's union representing machinists and baggage handlers , termed a recent meeting with management `` an exercise in futility . ''
Mr. Bryan said he was particularly angry that the day after the meeting , Eastern announced it was terminating 98 mechanics ' jobs .
The timing of the layoffs , Mr. Bryan asserted , made it appear as if the job slashing had the union 's tacit approval .
The once-quarterly stock , futures and options trading frenzy that is triple witching hour came again on Friday , bringing stock and futures price records instead of a curse .
Perhaps tempered by experimental regulatory guidelines , it was a bit tamer than its predecessor last Dec. 19 .
And it left relieved investors daring to hope that Wall Street may finally have learned to cope with the massive program trading activity associated with the simultaneous expiration of stock-index futures , index options and options on individual stocks .
Or was it luck ?
Indications are that a number of big institutional investors moved to `` unwind '' their combined stock and futures positions well before Friday .
Perhaps as a result , New York Stock Exchange volume during the final minute fell far short of predictions .
Following an unnerving swoon shortly after 3:30 p.m. EST , stock prices did run up sharply as final-minute volume totaled 55 million shares -- not much more than half of the final-minute volume Dec. 19 .
After the close , both Wall Street traders and federal regulators pronounced themselves pleased with how the trading was handled .
`` Certainly , the level of volatility was low and things seemed to be handled smoothly , '' said Richard Ketchum , head of the market regulation for the Securities and Exchange Commission .
`` We still have to do an analysis of the microdynamics of the close -- who did what to whom and why , '' said SEC Commissioner Joseph Grundfest , but `` I would n't call -LRB- the experimental regulation -RRB- a failure . ''
Peter Borish , vice president of Tudor Investment Corp. , said that expirations are `` good because they scare people .
You can n't have a bull market without people being afraid '' that stocks are poised to drop sharply in price .
He predicted that the stock market rally will accelerate `` faster than anybody thinks .
The Dow will be at 2550 in the next three weeks '' before an 8 % to 10 % correction .
Then the rally will continue , he said .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average closed above 2300 for the first time , gaining 33.95 points -- a dozen during the final minute -- to finish at a record 2333.52 .
In Chicago , the June contract on the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index soared to a record high of 299.80 , up 3.80 for the day .
`` This was the first expiration I 've seen where -LRB- investors -RRB- were n't sitting on their hands or acting in some unusual way because it was an expiration day , '' said Joseph Schmuckler , a vice president in the financial futures department at Kidder , Peabody & Co. .
`` The market is maturing and it was business as usual , '' he added .
But , while it might not mean major new regulation , business as usual will mean continued government scrutiny of program trading activity .
Today the commission 's Division of Market Regulation is scheduled to release a 43-page study of the hectic trading that drove down the Dow Jones Industrial Average a total of 120 points last Sept. 11 and 12 .
That big sell-off was n't triggered by stock-index futures trading strategies , the study found , but rather by investors ' perceptions that economic conditions had worsened .
However , it adds that `` index-related futures trading was instrumental in the rapid transmission '' of investors ' bearishness to stock prices `` and may have condensed the time period in which the decline occurred . ''
The study , completed with the help of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission staff , concludes that the September plunge alone does n't suggest any major regulatory or structural changes are needed .
But it warns that `` dramatic growth '' in institutional use of index products `` requires continued careful analysis of the potential for disruption of the stock market as well as manipulative or other inappropriate trading in the index products and their component stocks . ''
Big Board member firms ' apparently strict compliance with experimental SEC and Big Board trading regulations may have helped damp volatility in Friday 's session , market professionals said .
At the December expiration , not all the market-on-close orders were reported by the 3:30 p.m. deadline .
The imbalances in the orders that were entered by them showed there were many more sales than purchases planned for the closing bell .
But in the final minute , one firm , reportedly Salomon Brothers Inc. , entered an estimated $ 1 billion to $ 1.5 billion of buy orders .
While the big order forced prices to spurt higher at the bell , it also frightened and angered other market participants that day .
As it turned out Friday , the imbalances in market-on-close orders disseminated on the Big Board transactions tape were heavily on the buy side , precisely the outcome at the close .
But it was a tortuous road to the bell .
Friday morning `` every major house was said to have buy orders '' for execution on the close .
That was pretty common knowledge before the market opened , '' said Michael Bernstein , a partner with Miller , Tabak , Hirsch & Co. , a New York securities firm .
Stock prices started to rise as trading got under way Friday .
Airline , drug , oil , technology , and some brokerage firm stocks took off .
Trading was active throughout much of the morning but settled down a bit around midday and through much of the afternoon until the final hour .
In the final hour , the anxiously anticipated late buy orders began to flow .
Morgan Stanley & Co. reported shortly after 3 p.m. that it had blue-chip stock buy orders totaling $ 1.1 billion .
Then , second thoughts .
`` It 's not going to be up that much .
I 'm seeing a lot of brokers with sell orders , '' Dan Marciano , who heads the trading desk at Prudential-Bache , broadcasted to the firm 's traders at 3:45 p.m. .
`` The whole market had been rallying in anticipation of big buy programs at the close , '' explained Courtney Smith , head of futures trading and research at Twenty-First Securities Corp. in New York .
But once they studied the order imbalances running on the Big Board tape `` people knew that was n't the case . . . and that led to a sell-off . ''
Indeed , brokers already had found sellers to satisfy many of the buyers as the imbalances were reported .
There were n't as many buyers as many professionals had expected , either , and in the first 20 minutes of the final half-hour , the industrial average sank nearly 10 points .
Three minutes before the closing bell , the `` tick '' indicator , which measures the net difference between the total number of stocks trading higher in price from their prior trade and the total of those trading lower than their prior sale , showed a minus 479 issues .
But stock prices then seemed to literally turn on a dime and by the time the consolidated tape stopped running some 25 minutes later , the indicator read plus 820 .
When the digital clock that hangs above Prudential-Bache 's trading desk showed 4 p.m. , one trader blew a party horn .
Thomas Ponticelli shouted : `` Look at that block tape '' as blocks of more than 10,000 shares of Coca-Cola , International Business Machines , Philip Morris , Ford , Digital Equipment , and many others whizzed by at twice the usual speed .
Most of the fun in the Chicago Mercantile Exchange 's S&P 500 stock-index futures pit had occurred a bit earlier in the session .
When the expiring March contract briefly touched the 300 mark for the first time , traders cheered and tossed cards into the air .
`` It 's a real high , '' said one .
`` It 's like you 're king of the hill . ''
Most of the other closely watched market barometers also moved to new highs along with the Dow Jones Industrial Average Friday .
The S&P-500 stock index finished up 4.09 at 298.17 and the New York Stock Exchange composite index gained 2.09 to 169.37 .
Technology stocks scored big gains .
IBM rose 1 5/8 to 148 5/8 ; NCR added 3 1/4 to 67 3/4 ; Unisys moved up 1 5/8 to 107 1/2 ; and Hewlett-Packard advanced 1 to 61 1/4 .
Texas Instruments rose 3 1/4 to 175 1/2 .
Goldman Sachs recommended the stock Friday , but other Wall Street analysts were recommending semiconductor issues to their clients in the past week .
Also , the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and Industry urged 10 Japanese semiconductor companies not to sell computer chips overseas at unfairly low prices .
American Express fell 1 1/2 to 77 1/4 on more than 2.1 million shares .
The financial services concern said it received a subpoena from the SEC requesting documents pertaining to transactions in securities of its Fireman 's Fund unit and American Express .
The subpoenas related to transactions with Jefferies & Co. , whose chairman resigned Thursday and plans to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating securities laws .
Jefferies moved up 1 3/4 to 12 3/4 and other brokerage stocks also gained .
Amax fell 7/8 to 18 1/8 .
The company filed an offering of 15.7 million shares .
Computer Sciences jumped 4 3/8 to 58 3/4 .
The concern said it will negotiate a contract with NASA that the company estimates is valued at $ 1 billion if NASA exercises all of its options .
Pan Am was unchanged at 4 3/8 in active trading .
The financially strapped airline reported a fourth-quarter loss of $ 197.5 million after charges .
The stock 's price has been sliding since early January when it traded around 6 .
LTV Corp. rose 1/4 to 3 on heavy volume .
A bankruptcy judge approved the company 's $ 100 million financing agreement , an important step in its bankruptcy reorganization .
For months Air Atlanta Inc. has been flying practically on empty .
The next few days may determine whether the small , closely held airline has finally run out of fuel .
It is negotiating to sell as much as a 25 % stake to KLM Royal Dutch Air Lines for $ 10 million , according to sources close to the company .
But it may be grounded by a cash shortage before Thursday , when KLM is expected to decide whether to acquire the stake .
The airline stayed afloat last week by selling its slot at Washington National Airport to Pan American World Airways for $ 2 million .
The transaction produced $ 500,000 in cash , enabling the company to pay enough past-due rent and landing fees to avoid default at Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport , its hub .
Now executives of the three-year-old carrier are scrambling to obtain a bridge loan that may be needed to tide it over until Thursday .
They met last week with representatives of its current investors in an apparently unsuccessful effort to get them to provide additional capital .
Air Atlanta 's biggest investors include Equitable Life Assurance Society of the U.S. and CSX Corp. .
Air Atlanta officials said the company may be able to get through the week with cash on hand .
Officials declined to comment on the KLM negotiations .
The proposed transaction with KLM would include an agreement to feed Air Atlanta passengers to KLM international flights .
Air Atlanta currently has such an agreement with Pan American , flying that carrier 's international passengers to and from New York 's Kennedy International Airport .
Daniel H. Kolber , Air Atlanta executive vice president , said the company has discussed such agreements with a number of carriers .
But sources said there may be a major regulatory stumbling block to any pact with KLM .
They said the U.S. Department of Transportation has n't been allowing the so-called `` code-sharing '' between international and domestic carriers that KLM may require under the proposed Air Atlanta-KLM arrangement .
Code-sharing between airlines involves passengers being booked on connecting flights as though they were being served by one carrier .
Michael R. Hollis , Air Atlanta chairman , is said to be lobbying with the federal agency for a rule change .
The company has attracted attention since its first flight in 1984 because Mr. Hollis , a 33-year-old black entrepreneur , entered a highly visible business without government help .
Air Atlanta has billed itself as an airline created to serve business , attempting to carve a niche with travelers who want such frills as roomier seats , better meals and a gate-side lounge with free drinks , telephones and newspapers .
Considered the best-financed black-led venture ever , Air Atlanta nevertheless was undercapitalized for the current deregulated , competitive airline environment .
Unable to produce a profit , the company has had to appeal repeatedly for bailouts from investors .
The company currently has about $ 50 million of debt outstanding , but it is mostly zero coupon convertible notes which do n't require interest payments , according to sources .
The company 's most pressing problem is about $ 2 million owed to vendors , including the Atlanta airport .
Current investors are balking at providing additional funds in part because they 're uncomfortable with the inability of Mr. Hollis to keep a president and chief operating officer at the company , according to a former executive with one of the initial investors .
Last month , Harry A. Kimbriel , 59-year-old former American Airlines executive , resigned as president , citing philosophical differences with Mr. Hollis , an attorney without previous airline experience .
Investors had insisted that someone be hired to oversee day-to-day operations at the airline .
Mr. Kimbriel has since agreed to continue working at the airline as a consultant .
Despite the airline 's problems , company officials say they believe Air Atlanta will get the capital needed to put it on its feet .
`` We have a good product , '' Mr. Kolber said .
The airline 's load factor , or percentage of seats filled , has steadily improved to 53 % , he said , despite little advertising and negative publicity .
Air Atlanta has argued that the company can be profitable with 12 to 15 planes ; it currently has seven , which are leased .
One reason the company is negotiating with potential investors is to provide money to lease additional aircraft .
Carl Hahn , chairman of Volkswagen AG , defended the West German auto maker 's integrity in the face of a multimillion-dollar foreign-exchange scandal , which occurred despite what he said were strict internal guidelines .
Prosecutors are investigating the alleged fraud , which was uncovered after foreign-currency contracts -- used to protect the company from currency shifts -- came due at the end of 1986 .
VW has said that the manipulation of its contracts will cost it as much as $ 259 million .
The disclosures have led to the resignation of VW 's chief financial officer and the removal of its foreign-exchange manager .
-LRB- Despite the foreign-exchange loss , the company 's stock price has stabilized after an initial decline. -RCB-
`` I like to sail , so I 'm sensitive to winds , '' said the 60-year-old Mr. Hahn .
`` We realize we are not necessarily out of the storm , but we realize also that this is not the end of Volkswagen . ''
Mr. Hahn said that the sheer volume of transactions at VW would make it hard to catch irregularities , and that auditors worked for weeks without discovering the forgeries .
`` What looks to the public like we were acting late was actually a situation in which we thought we were acting fast , '' the executive said .
`` It took us some time to become suspicious . ''
But he expressed optimism that the investigation would produce results .
`` The authorities should have access to types of information that cannot be destroyed , '' he said .
Data banks at VW were said to have been erased , making the probe more difficult .
`` This money has never been carried out of the company in cash , but it must have been transformed at one point into cash , '' he said .
`` So from Frankfurt there is possibly a line of bank accounts that will shed more light on this . ''
At VW , which as of today will have made 50 million cars , Mr. Hahn said he is presiding over a successful company whose credibility in the marketplace will be bolstered by its 1986 results .
The figures , which are to be released in April , will show `` a good base and good performance '' despite an earnings slowdown , he said .
Volkswagen 's pressing projects include setting up a dealer infrastructure for selling models made by the recently acquired Spanish car maker Sociedad Espanola de Automoviles de Turismo , or SEAT ; boosting output at its Brazil operations in the face of mounting economic difficulties in that country ; and restoring the image of its upscale Audi in the U.S. following recalls of its 5000 series because of acceleration problems .
Mr. Hahn was optimistic about SEAT , which Volkswagen acquired from the Spanish government in 1986 .
`` The figures -LCB- for 1986 -RCB- will not be as nice as we would like them , but they will be a dramatic improvement '' over 1985 , he said .
He predicted that the break-even level will be reached in 1987 's second half .
Most important , Mr. Hahn said , is securing a much-wanted niche in the lower end of the European market through SEAT .
He said he is concerned about VW 's Brazilian business .
Despite a traditional position of strength , that operation is in `` very difficult waters '' because of Brazil 's monetary and fiscal squeeze , he said .
To combat the effects of a weakened dollar , Mr. Hahn said Volkswagen is shifting export volume to Brazil in the manufacturing sector and using Mexico as a supply base for European manufacturing .
The company also is streamlining its U.S. operations through the closure of its Charleston , S.C. , plant and the transfer of its U.S.-based sheet-metal operation to Mexico .
On a recent morning , Thomas O' Brien bought $ 25 million of stock-index futures , 225,000 shares of Reebok International Ltd. -- and a bran muffin .
Choosing the muffin was the hard part .
Practically everything else in Mr. O' Brien 's job as chief equity trader at Wells Fargo Investment Advisors is part of a carefully guided process .
A computer printout tells him what stocks to buy .
A daily scratch sheet tells him when to buy and sell stock-index futures .
`` This is great , '' says Mr. O' Brien , as he finishes up the futures purchase .
`` You can be in and out of the market in five seconds . ''
In money management these days , much of the guesswork , and the glamour , are fading .
Now , formulas and percentages , rather than clever hunches about investments , are what count .
Largely behind the change are two innovations : stock-index futures markets , which enable traders to buy and sell a contract based on the general level of stock prices , and desk-top computers , which let money managers quickly size up the market according to mathematical models .
At the forefront of this trend toward sophisticated investing is Wells Fargo Investment Advisors .
WFIA 's assets have leaped fivefold since 1984 .
Now managing more than $ 60 billion for clients , mainly big pension funds , the firm has become the biggest single investor in the stock market .
It also is the largest stockholder in dozens of major companies ; it owns , for example , more than 10 million shares of International Business Machines Corp. , equal to 1.7 % of the giant computer company .
The success of this Wells Fargo & Co. investment unit is deceptively simple .
WFIA seldom tries to choose between good and bad stocks ; instead , it merely matches market benchmarks such as the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index .
`` They just buy a large cross section of stocks for you -- and hold it , '' explains Edward Safran , assistant treasurer of Polaroid Corp. and a major WFIA client .
Yet index funds such as WFIA 's have out-performed 60 % to 70 % of conventional stock managers in recent years .
`` Too many active managers pick the wrong stocks or incur high trading costs , '' says Alan Emkin , a pension consultant at Wilshire Associates .
`` Index funds just keep tracking the market , and that 's very appealing to clients . ''
A bull market such as the current one , of course , favors index funds because they are always fully invested .
In contrast , conventional managers usually hold some cash reserves , which have hurt their performance recently .
But reserves `` could be a help if the market turns down , '' Mr. Emkin says .
`` You can n't get out of a falling market if you 're in an index fund . ''
At WFIA , there are n't any analysts trying to predict earnings , evaluate new products or forecast the economy .
The firm 's biggest section is its accounting department , which tracks portfolios , dividends and who owes what to whom .
Stock selection is so automatic that WFIA 's chief investment officer , 33-year-old Patricia Dunn , keeps a wind-up white robot near her desk .
It is an impish present from a colleague , and on its chest is a label saying : `` Investment Manager , Index Variety . ''
Robot investing irks some observers .
`` My biggest shareholders do n't know who I am , let alone care whether we build a new mill in Alabama , '' complains Andrew Sigler , the chief executive officer of Champion International Corp. .
`` We 're just a computerized stock symbol to them . ''
Other critics fret that WFIA 's huge use of futures-trading strategies could someday jolt the stock market .
But big clients rush to WFIA 's defense .
`` They 're one of the best in the business , '' says Thomas E. Flanigan , the chief investment officer of the California State Teachers Retirement System .
Mr. Flanigan oversees a $ 20 billion pension plan , which has moved more than $ 6 billion into the stock market the past few years .
`` Indexing is the only approach that lets you move that much money that fast , without hurting yourself , '' he says .
In fact , the value of stock-index funds nationwide has tripled since 1984 to $ 150 billion , according to consultants .
That makes index funds equal to 15 % of institutional equity holdings , or about 7 % of the entire stock market .
More generally , highly mathematical techniques are becoming crucial to big money managers such as Bankers Trust Co. , Chase Manhattan Corp. and J.P. Morgan & Co. .
Once in place , their computerized models can pick stocks for years , affected only indirectly by human judgment .
Investing is changing from an art to `` a technology-driven , low-cost business , '' says John Casey , a pension consultant .
At WFIA , running the formula last Jan. 30 meant buying more than 200,000 shares of Reebok -- quickly .
That 's because WFIA likes to own all the stocks in the S&P 500 index , in amounts scaled to their market weight .
Those holdings range from more than $ 1.4 billion of IBM to just $ 673,000 of Allis-Chalmers Corp. .
But Reebok was added to the S&P index only in early January , and WFIA 's main index fund needed to buy about $ 15 million of stock in the shoe company as fast as it could without driving up the price .
Big brokers were glad to help .
Mr. O' Brien snapped up 100,000 shares in one lot , 125,000 in another .
By 10 a.m. , he was done .
For all that buying , no one at WFIA really cares how Reebok does .
`` There are n't that many mispriced securities anymore , '' Fred Grauer , WFIA 's president , says .
Each year , random luck brings Wells its share of winners -- and losers .
In fact , Mr. Grauer argues that it is better to buy the whole stock market in a way that minimizes commissions and trading costs than to spend a lot of time and money in an often-futile search for `` cheap stocks . ''
Last year , when the S&P 500 index rose a bit more than 18 % , with dividends reinvested , WFIA 's big index funds were right in line-up 18.49 % .
`` We can track the index to within 0.01 percentage point , '' Ms. Dunn boasts .
Index funds are just part of WFIA 's business , though , and its professionals would rather talk about new products .
These include international index funds , a fund that uses computer models to pick promising areas of the stock market , and `` stock-index arbitrage . ''
This kind of arbitrage involves shuffling millions of dollars between stocks and futures , depending on which investment is cheaper at the moment .
Last year , WFIA 's stock-index arbitrage earned more than $ 20 million for clients .
Each morning , futures specialists give Mr. O' Brien , the trader , a scratch sheet with target prices for when to buy or sell futures .
In late January , for example , he was ready to sell S&P futures any time they rose more than 1.10 points above the underlying stock index .
If futures fell more than 0.20 point below the stocks , he would buy futures and sell stocks instead .
His typical trade involved $ 30 million .
`` We did eight of these one day , '' Mr. O' Brien says .
Traders joke that S&P arbitrage is such a sure moneymaker that only nuclear war could disrupt it .
In fact , Mr. O' Brien 's biggest concern the morning of Jan. 30 was that too many other institutions wanted to make the same trades .
By the time he was ready to buy futures , three other buyers had jumped ahead of him in brokers ' queues .
Traditional money managers shudder at this form of trading .
`` This is turning the New York Stock Exchange into a commodities crapshoot , '' complains Charles Allmon , the publisher of the Growth Stock Outlook newsletter .
`` It 's adding volatility and instability to the market . ''
But S&P arbitrage `` simply provides liquidity , '' insists Jeremy Evnine , a WFIA futures specialist .
When other traders push futures prices out of line , WFIA steps in to restore the balance , he says .
`` To blame us for moving the market is like blaming a leash for tugging a dog .
You have to look for the hand at the other end . ''
WFIA is even more active in another computer-driven investment strategy : portfolio insurance .
This technique involves owning stocks while hedging the risk of a market drop with stock-index futures .
The hedge is adjusted to increase protection in falling markets , while letting investors participate in a bull market .
WFIA invests now $ 9 billion this way , all from Nancy Feldkircher 's terminal .
The 26-year-old assistant vice president says : `` I try to think of all that money as just commas and zeros .
Otherwise , I get nervous . ''
But Ms. Feldkircher does n't really make the decisions ; she just carries them out .
Computer software licensed from Leland O' Brien Rubinstein Associates Inc. , of Los Angeles , decides when to buy and sell .
Ms. Feldkircher 's biggest modification was to put an old Mercedes instrument gauge above her terminal .
`` It makes it look more high-tech , '' she jokes .
Portfolio-insurance clients seem pleased with WFIA 's results so far .
`` It 's being played just the way I would have expected , '' says Timothy R. Barron , a Virginia investment official .
Nonetheless , some critics worry that portfolio insurance , with its mechanical buying and selling of futures , could someday accelerate a plunge in stock prices .
When portfolio insurers rush to sell stock-index futures , their huge sales can depress futures prices relative to stocks .
At that point , arbitragers , trying to profit from discrepancies between the two markets , begin buying futures while selling the underlying stocks .
These `` sell programs , '' often involving hundreds of different issues , can push stock prices even lower and set off a vicious circle .
The real test will come in a falling market , of course , and lately the market has been strong .
However , when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 86.61 points last Sept. 11 , some arbitragers said they increased their selling that afternoon to get in ahead of portfolio insurers ; they expected the insurers to need to sell more futures soon to implement their hedges .
Aware that such tactics could aggravate market plunges , WFIA is trying to use `` a little bit of judgment on portfolio-insurance trading , '' says Rolf Theisen , another WFIA futures specialist .
Stock options and cash markets are being used as well as futures , he explains , and traders have discretion to execute an order gradually if futures seem badly mispriced relative to stocks .
`` It is n't an emergency situation where people have to trade at all costs , '' he says .
WFIA 's current market clout would have seemed unthinkable in the 1960s , when the notion of index funds arose .
At that time , finance professors at the University of Chicago argued that individual stock prices moved so randomly that it made more sense to hold a diverse basket of stocks than to try to pick winners .
In 1971 , pension managers at Samsonite Corp. became convinced enough to ask Wells to set up the first working index fund .
Growth in such investing was slow in the 1970s .
But it has taken off in the past few years , as studies going back as much as two decades began showing a clear performance edge for index funds .
Previously stubborn pension managers decided that they might as well settle for indexing .
In a critical move in 1983 , Wells Fargo hired Mr. Grauer away from Merrill Lynch & Co. to run its investment unit .
He replaced William Fouse , a pioneer in indexing , who left Wells to set up his own indexing firm for Mellon Bank Corp. .
At that point , says Mr. Casey , the consultant , `` The top management at Wells Fargo finally realized what a good business they had in indexing .
That 's when they really decided to let it grow . ''
For all its huge portfolios , WFIA itself is surprisingly puny .
It employs just 110 people , ensconced on one floor of a San Francisco office tower .
Its index-fund management fees are minuscule , ranging as low as 0.05 % of assets annually ; thus , WFIA 's $ 60 billion of assets probably provides only $ 30 million to $ 50 million a year in fee revenue .
Its pretax profits are believed to be less than half that and thus well under 5 % of Wells Fargo & Co. 's overall net income . -LRB- Officials will n't discuss WFIA 's revenue or earnings . -RRB-
Still , new money keeps pouring in .
In January , for example , WFIA added 15 more clients with $ 2.6 billion in assets .
`` People keep asking us how big we can get , as if there were some upper limit , '' says Jeff Skelton , WFIA 's director of business development .
`` They do n't realize that size is the friend of the indexer . ''
If West Virginians want to hear two different views of how the nation got into its trade mess and how to get out of it , they need only listen to their two Democratic U.S. senators .
`` It is n't the fault of the Koreans if our kids watch ' Miami Vice ' instead of studying math , '' Sen. John D. Rockefeller IV tells a Chamber of Commerce audience in this small Ohio River community .
`` We 're part of our own problem .
American industry can n't just keep running to government for relief . ''
But over in nearby Morgantown , Senate Majority Leader Robert C. Byrd puts the blame -- as well as the responsibility for protecting basic domestic industries -- squarely on the government .
`` By the failure of our government to come to grips with the trade issue , we 've lost thousands of jobs , '' he declares .
These differences underscore the complexity of the trade issue , which has recently emerged from relative obscurity to become one of the major themes of politics in the 1980s and possibly a principal issue in the 1988 elections .
As Congress considers the elements of a major trade package , it must grapple with the same question facing West Virginians as they listen to their two senators : whether to seek quotas , tariffs and other forms of import limits or to adopt a more limited approach that primarily seeks to increase U.S. competitiveness and exports .
Majority Leader Byrd takes a hard-line view , calling for quick action by Congress to protect import-battered industries like steel , textiles and shoes .
Mr. Rockefeller , a Harvard graduate who speaks Japanese and is an avid internationalist , calls on American business to `` be smarter . ''
Volker Jung , the president of Siemens Public Switching Systems Inc. , a unit of Siemens AG , recently met with each lawmaker on trade issues .
Sen. Rockefeller , he recalls , immediately began asking detailed questions about the differences between the U.S. and West German educational systems ; Sen. Byrd focused on the loss of American jobs and `` wanted to know what are Siemens 's goals in the U.S. . ''
Adds Gary White , the president of the West Virginia Coal Association : `` Rockefeller tells us to make sacrifices to make our coal exports more competitive. . . .
Byrd says he wants to protect basic industries and see that they keep their fair share of the domestic market . ''
The trade issue is crucial to West Virginians -- but it cuts in several directions .
The state 's major industry , mining , has been severely depressed for years ; in steel , petrochemicals and glass , job losses to foreign competition have been high .
But surprisingly , some 20 % of what West Virginia produces is sold abroad -- far more than the 12 % or so in the nation as a whole .
Both of West Virginia 's senators are integrally involved in the congressional debate on trade .
As the majority leader explains it , Sen. Rockefeller , who was just appointed to the Finance Committee , `` is in a good position from inside to help mold the legislation .
I 'm the catalyst to put it all together . ''
Moreover , both agree that trade legislation is necessary , and they articulate the same general goals for their state ; for example , both believe that the biggest hope for the state 's future lies in high technology .
`` We probably do bring somewhat different perspectives to the trade issue , but our goal is the same -- to make this country more competitive and to strengthen the economy of West Virginia , '' Sen. Byrd says .
When talk turns specific , the dissimilarities in their backgrounds , viewpoints and solutions begin to emerge .
`` We 've had different experiences , '' says Sen. Rockefeller .
`` The different experiences mean we talk about trade in a different way . ''
Mr. Byrd , 69 years old , is a product of rural West Virginia .
Raised by relatives after his mother died , he worked for 12 years to save enough money to go to college .
His position as leader of the Senate 's Democrats has made him a national figure , but he still identifies with the state 's rural , largely unsophisticated populace .
In depressed West Virginia , a job is a precious commodity , and the notion that trade is depriving people of jobs powerfully shapes Mr. Byrd 's attitudes .
On a midweek visit to the state , the majority leader stops for coffee in Flatwoods , a town of 400 people along Interstate 79 , smack in the middle of the state .
The owner of the local truck stop tells Mr. Byrd about a nearby mill that has lost its market for barrel staves and blames the loss on unfair trading practices by foreign countries .
In response , the senator talks about the need for tough trade legislation to `` make the country competitive again . ''
The next day , Mr. Byrd is the host at a well-attended conference promoting the development of a `` Software Valley '' in the state to be modeled after California 's Silicon Valley .
The majority leader is trying to persuade computer giants to set up shop in the state or contribute technology to help basic industries in West Virginia modernize and become more competitive .
By the end of the daylong event , the senator has obtained commitments from several companies to help in the project .
Bell Atlantic Corp. decides to locate its new software-development center in West Virginia , and International Business Machines Corp. agrees to lend an executive to run the project .
Sen. Byrd 's push for a Software Valley is consistent with his tendency to worry first about how domestic companies are surviving and then look for solutions from the U.S. government and the business community .
Sen. Rockefeller , on the other hand , promptly starts out looking to other countries ' practices and industries for models of what to do to improve the trade picture here .
A scion of one of the wealthiest families in the country , the 49-year-old Mr. Rockefeller has traveled the world extensively and lived for three years in Japan .
He first moved to West Virginia as an anti-poverty worker , then decided to stay and start a political career , eventually serving two terms as governor .
Not surprisingly , Sen. Rockefeller has often looked to Japan for solutions to West Virginia 's economic problems .
He was instrumental in bringing Japan 's sixth-largest steelmaker , Nisshin Steel Co. , to the state ; Nisshin is just breaking ground on a $ 65 million plant , a joint venture with the beleaguered Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. that will bring at least 100 jobs .
At a lunch kicking off the joint venture , the senator gives a Japanese official a U.S. flag that once flew over the Capitol .
To cheers , he has the Japanese executive hold up the flag with him .
`` Most of us have an upbeat feeling about '' the joint venture , says Elaine McAlpine , the craft director of the Brooke County Senior Citizen Center , who has a colorful , oversized Japanese calendar tacked up behind her desk .
`` It 's a chance to get some improvement here . ''
Even some workers who believe that they have been harmed by foreign companies look to the companies for help .
Robert McMakin , a coal worker who was laid off in 1983 , brings his resume to Sen. Rockefeller at a town meeting in the Fairmont public library , hoping to learn of potential jobs .
`` I 'm willing to work for a foreign company , '' says the father of two .
`` I have a feeling the foreign companies put me out of work , and if they come into this country and pay Americans a fair wage so we can feed our families , I 'm for it . ''
Other voters reflect the divisions between their two senators .
At another town meeting at the library in McMechen , south of Wheeling , an overflow audience of steelworkers , retirees and others crowds among the bookshelves to voice its fears .
Sentiment is strong for some form of protection against imports .
`` When you say we 're in a world market , it 's an unfair market that is putting our people out of work , '' James Bosworth tells the senator .
`` Maybe we should build a wall around ourselves . ''
A woman in the audience calls out : `` Let 's have a Boston tea party and throw all the Japanese products in the ocean ! ''
But other voters think the issue is more complex .
`` If you become too protectionist , you cut your nose off to spite your face , '' says Charles Beall , the secretary-treasurer of a Wellsburg lumber company .
`` It could help steel , but it would hurt coal because they have to sell out of the country . ''
The only thing all voters seem to agree on is that something must be done .
Wherever either senator goes in the state , he is besieged about the issue .
`` I 've heard at least five times about rumors of layoffs , '' Sen. Rockefeller says .
`` So even if they have a job , they are n't secure . ''
Sen. Byrd takes pains to reassure voters that he will see to it that the trade picture improves .
`` I do n't intend to preside over a continuation of this decline , '' he says .
Sen. Rockefeller , though , is n't reassuring at all .
In the tiny northern river town of New Cumberland , he pays a visit to the John D. Rockefeller IV Vocational Center , where his family door knocker graces the front entrance .
At the center , a local TV camera crew asks him for a `` message '' to the area 's steelworkers that they will have jobs .
`` There is no message anyone can give to guarantee survival , '' the senator replies .
`` There 's no guarantee for anything in global competition . ''
A U.S. court extended an order freezing the assets of an Israeli financier and a former Merrill Lynch & Co. executive charged with a $ 4 million insider-trading scheme .
But the SEC said the financier , David Sofer , has indicated he will fight the SEC over control of his overseas assets .
The SEC also disclosed in a memorandum filed at a court hearing Friday that its charges against Mr. Sofer and Nahum Vaskevitch , the former Merrill official , were filed March 11 in an `` emergency '' atmosphere because the SEC believed that Mr. Sofer was trying to move some of his allegedly illicit profits out of the U.S. to Switzerland .
The statement that Mr. Sofer may fight the SEC overseas , also made at the hearing , marked the first indication of any response in the case from Mr. Sofer or Mr. Vaskevitch , Merrill Lynch 's former head of mergers in London .
Both have been unreachable for comment and their lawyers have declined to discuss the case .
The SEC alleged that Mr. Sofer and Mr. Vaskevitch reaped more than $ 4 million from insider trading over the past three years , based on tips from Mr. Vaskevitch about deals involving Merrill Lynch clients .
The SEC memorandum alleged that Mr. Sofer unsuccessfully tried to transfer to Switzerland about $ 500,000 from a brokerage account in which he allegedly made insider trades .
Earlier this year , Mr. Sofer transferred about $ 1.9 million from the brokerage account to a Swiss Bank , the SEC charged .
Thomas C. Newkirk , an SEC lawyer , said Mr. Sofer 's lawyer in New York has indicated that Mr. Sofer plans to fight for control of his assets overseas , where the U.S. court 's freeze order might not be enforceable .
Mr. Sofer has n't decided whether to contest the U.S. court over his U.S. assets , Mr. Newkirk said .
The SEC has declined to disclose the amount of Mr. Sofer 's and Mr. Vaskevitch 's assets .
Mr. Sofer 's lawyer , Stanley Arkin , declined to comment .
The SEC is seeking penalties in the insider trading case of as much as three times the alleged illicit profit , or a maximum penalty of more than $ 12 million .
If the defendants ' assets in the U.S. are not sufficient , the stage could be set for a fight to seize assets in foreign countries such as Switzerland .
Friday 's 10-day extension of the asset freeze was made by Judge Robert W. Sweet .
Judge Sweet said the extension would give him time to review the SEC 's request for a longer-term preliminary injunction against Mr. Vaskevitch and Mr. Sofer .
A year ago , economists were predicting a West German boom that would propel West Europe to its best economic performance since the 1970s .
It never materialized and today , Europe 's economic engine is running out of steam .
No one is forecasting a recession in Germany .
But it is likely that its economy will n't expand this year at even the modest 2 % rate forecast only a few months ago -- and that it will actually decline in the current quarter .
The slowdown is casting a shadow over the globe .
Germany accounts for one-fourth of the output of the 12-nation European Community , so its weakness is sapping the continent of economic vitality .
Despite strength in Britain and Italy , Common Market growth is expected to sag to 2 % this year from the 3.5 % annual rate in 1986 's second half .
The sluggishness is depriving the U.S. of the surge in European imports it needs to narrow its trade deficit , and is dimming hopes for an easing of the world debt crisis .
The Reagan administration is still urging Bonn to revive its economy .
It argues that because Germany has the smallest budget deficits , the lowest inflation and the largest economy in Europe , it is in the best position to stimulate growth .
The Germans have agreed to add about $ 3 billion to an existing $ 5 billion tax-cut package , which takes effect next January .
But so far they have n't shown any inclination to take the stronger action demanded by Washington and some European trading partners .
Yet evidence is mounting that Europe 's economic motor has fallen out of the car .
The Bundesbank recently reported , for example , that domestic manufacturing orders fell an unusually sharp 4 % in January from the previous month .
`` The latest signs are quite disturbing , '' says Klaus Friedrich , an economist specializing in German affairs at the Federal Reserve Board in Washington .
He adds that the `` weakness is from a base that was already meager . ''
Economist J. Paul Horne of Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. in Paris , finds the evidence equally troubling .
`` The West German economy is very vulnerable , '' he says .
If the Germans `` let things go as they are , then a further weakening of the dollar could move them dangerously toward zero growth . ''
Instead of `` dithering , '' Mr. Horne adds , `` the German government would be well advised to step on the gas a little bit . ''
Germany 's inflation-adjusted growth of 2.4 % last year was its worst showing since the economy climbed out of recession in 1983 .
Experts project a slack 1 % -to-2 % gain for all of 1987 -- and a contraction of as much as 1 % in the first quarter .
Initially , they had figured that domestic demand , benefiting from lower oil prices , would fill the economic void left by diminishing exports .
That happened , to some extent .
But what the economists did n't foresee was the precipitous decline in the dollar and the dramatic impact that would have on the German economy .
Because Germany depends on exports for one-third of its economy , the impact of a slowdown in trade is profound .
Export volume grew less than 1 % last year , compared with a 6 % increase in 1985 .
As exports shrivel , German businesses are becoming pessimistic and cautious , lowering production and inventories .
German business is also scaling back investment , which until recently had reached record levels .
Capital spending by German firms this year is expected to run only slightly ahead of 1986 levels , after gains of 9 % in 1985 and 5 % last year .
`` German exporters have stopped buying capital goods , '' says the Fed 's Mr. Friedrich .
Some big companies anticipate outright declines .
Siemens AG , the electronics giant that makes half of its $ 25 billion annual sales outside Germany , says it intends to cut capital outlays about 3 % this year .
The decision follows three years in which annual spending more than tripled to $ 3.4 billion .
`` Things are slowing down , '' says one Siemens official .
`` The business climate just is n't as favorable as it was . ''
His sentiment is widespread .
Last month IFO , the Munich-based economic research institute , recorded its steepest decline in German business confidence in more than three years .
Germany 's manufacturing sector also faces possible labor unrest .
Bargaining with IG Metall , the powerful union that represents more than three million workers in the automobile and metal-working industries , is expected to be contentious as negotiators work to reach a new contract in the next few months .
The union 's walkout in 1984 crippled the West German economy .
But the biggest potential shock could come from further weakness in the dollar .
The U.S. currency has firmed since the meeting of finance ministers in Paris last month and is trading in a narrow range of about 1.85 marks .
The threat of central bank intervention could prevent sharp deviation from that level .
If the dollar does n't remain stable -- if it weakens to 1.75 marks or even lower -- trade would contract even further and a recession might then become imminent , economists fear .
The strong mark , meanwhile , is a double-edged detriment to the German economy : Not only does it make German exports more expensive , it also forces some businesses to expand activities outside Germany , where costs are lower .
Ford of Europe Inc. , for instance , is building new engines at its plant in Britain rather than sticking with plans to make them at a factory in Germany .
The 26 % appreciation of the mark against the British pound in the past two years means that British production offers a $ 50 , or 10 % , cost advantage on each engine .
`` Britain is definitely more competitive , '' says William Hayden , Ford 's vice president of manufacturing , who expects the current relationship between the pound and the mark to hold for a few years .
More housing units are available than ever before , but housing costs still climbed faster than overall consumer prices in the early 1980s , the Census Bureau reported .
The bureau said the number of housing units in the country will reach 100 million by the end of March .
John Keane , the bureau 's director , called that `` a record of historical significance . ''
But in a separate report , the bureau noted that housing costs have risen faster in the 1980s , contributing to a drop in the rate of home ownership over the past six years .
The bureau said the consumer price index rose 17 % during 1980-1983 , while monthly housing costs rose 26 % for homeowners with mortgages and 27 % for homeowners without mortgages .
Renters fared even worse : The cost of rent and utilities rose 31 % in the early 1980s .
During 1980-1983 , the median value of owner-occupied housing units increased 16 % and the sales price of new homes increased 17 % .
The decline in the home-ownership rate during the 1980s has been the first drop since the Census Bureau began tracking such figures in 1940 .
From the 1980 peak of 65.8 % , the percentage of units owned or partially owned by at least one occupant fell to a low of 63.5 % in the last quarter of 1985 .
In the last quarter of 1986 the homeownership rate was 63.9 % , but census officials said the increase may not be statistically significant .
Arthur F. Young , director of the bureau 's housing division , said the home-ownership rate increased just 2.5 percentage points during the 20 years between the 1960 and 1980 censuses .
`` What has happened in the last six years since 1980 has been a faster falloff than the increase in the previous 20 years , '' he said .
Mr. Young pointed to the 1981-82 recession and high interest rates , as well as increased home prices , as reasons for the decline in home ownership .
`` There is a lot of housing out there , '' Mr. Young said .
`` The real problem is whether the price fits the market . ''
The bureau said the South has led the nation in housing starts since the agency began tracking such information .
Housing units tracked by the survey include apartments , mobile homes , and vacation homes , as well as single-family homes .
Endotronics Inc. said its outside auditor withdrew approval of the troubled biotechnology company 's fiscal 1986 financial statements .
The auditor , Peat , Marwick , Mitchell & Co. , said Friday that `` in light of . . . serious questions '' about the company 's full-year revenue figure , `` we cannot satisfy ourselves as to the true facts of the situation . ''
For the fiscal year ended last Sept. 30 , Endotronics reported net income of $ 1.3 million , or 13 cents a share , on revenue $ 13.1 million .
Shortly before the auditor 's withdrawal , a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent who searched warehouses here asserted in an affidavit that many of the company 's cell-replicating machines reported as sold actually remained under Endotronics ' control .
Endotronics said it was providing documents to the Securities and Exchange Commission , and acknowledged a grand jury investigation into its operations , but declined to comment on the FBI agent 's affidavit .
In a related action , the company 's board and Hoechst Celanese Corp. , which owns 36 % of Endotronics common stock , were sued in federal district court here by six Endotronics holders for allegedly issuing false financial statements .
A spokesman at the unit of Hoechst AG of West Germany had no immediate comment .
As previously reported , founders Eugene Gruenberg and Micheal Gruenberg resigned as chairman and president , respectively .
On Friday , Micheal Gruenberg also resigned from the board , but remains Endotronics ' director of science .
In national over-the-counter trading Friday , Endotronics shares fell $ 1 to close at $ 1 .
Pacific Resources Inc. said it was sued in California federal district court by an Aetna Life & Casualty Co. unit .
The suit relates to the 1984 bankruptcy-law filing of Paramount Petroleum Corp. , 40 % -owned by Pacific Resources .
The energy concern said the suit alleged `` acts intended to fraudulently induce Aetna to issue surety bonds '' for Paramount Petroleum 's benefit .
Filed by Aetna Casualty & Surety Co. , the suit seeks $ 17 million in compensatory damages and $ 30 million in punitive damages from Pacific Resources , certain subsidiaries and certain officers and directors , among others , according to Pacific Resources .
The company said the suit , which it said seeks to overturn a settlement of certain claims approved in bankruptcy court last August , `` lacks merit . ''
For a moment , the TV commercial could pass for a Miller Lite advertisement .
Bubba Smith sits under a tree , reading .
Dick Butkus approaches , toting a football .
But this time the burly former football players are n't pushing beer ; they 're selling Bibles .
And soon a curious Mr. Butkus snatches one , called `` The Book , '' from Mr. Smith and begins poring through it .
Celebrity testimonials , long a staple in selling more secular products , are just part of a recent move by Bible publishers to use modern marketing techniques .
Like merchandisers of soap , cereal and automobiles , Bible companies are concocting slick packaging , going after demographic niches and spinning off new products .
`` They 're now using the Harvard Business School approach to marketing , sometimes in very sophisticated ways , '' says John Dessauer , the director of a center for book-industry research at the University of Scranton in Pennsylvania .
`` There 's a big change in philosophy . ''
And it is producing major changes in the $ 200-million-a-year retail market for Bibles .
As a nearly 2,000-year-old product -- and a book that tells a well-known story -- the Bible presents an unusual marketing challenge .
For centuries , the approach focused on fresh translations -- more than 100 in English alone since about 1900 -- along with , of course , the Bible 's continuing appeal to the faithful .
Even in the modern era , publishers primarily tapped more-or-less captive markets , with half their sales made to churches and other quantity buyers .
But publishers were relatively passive toward individual consumers .
With a rise in visibility of born-again Christianity , total Bible sales grew 10 % or more annually from the late 1970s through 1983 ; annual sales included an estimated 15 million commercial copies by 1984 .
The conservative-Christianity movement also helped bring a new breed of marketer to religious publishing .
Bruce Ryskamp , the president of the Bible group of Zondervan Corp. , a Grand Rapids , Mich. , publisher , for example , had been a marketing executive for a Yellow Pages publisher .
He says he decided in 1983 to work for Zondervan because `` I really think God was speaking to me . ''
`` Things have changed , '' says Robert Schwalb , vice president of Bible marketing for Thomas Nelson Publishers Inc. of Nashville , Tenn .
`` For a long time the church had branded certain professions ' anti-God , ' and advertising probably ranked right up there with pornography . ''
Now , even such established publishers as Nelson are taking a new approach .
One of the leaders of the marketing vanguard has been Marion G. `` Pat '' Robertson 's Christian Broadcasting Network Inc. , based in Virginia Beach , Va. .
In 1984 CBN teamed up with Tyndale House Publishers of Wheaton , Ill. , to make a radical change in Bible marketing .
`` We looked at it as a consumer product , '' says David Clark , the marketing vice president of CBN .
`` What would it take to get people to pick this up ? ''
To find out , the partners conducted consumer focus groups and surveyed mall shoppers -- and the results led to a repackaging of Tyndale 's mainstay edition .
They first picked an intriguingly vague title : `` The Book . ''
They made it a paperback and picked a bold cover , after testing six .
At $ 9.95 , the price was held below what what they considered the psychologically crucial $ 10 barrier .
They distributed `` The Book '' through unconventional outlets -- including K marts , hardware stores and groceries -- using catchy displays .
They lined up a New York advertising agency , prime television time and celebrity endorsements .
The result : More than two million copies have been sold to date , and Tyndale 's share of retail Bible sales now is estimated at 12.5 % , up from 11 % in 1983 .
Now that sales of `` The Book '' are cooling off , Tyndale is trying to sustain its success with spinoffs .
They include a `` one-year edition '' organized into daily chunks of reading ; a children 's version that has sold more than 650,000 copies ; a religious board game along the lines of Trivial Pursuit , and `` The Book '' on cassette tapes .
And last fall , Tyndale introduced `` The Story : From Adam to Armageddon , '' a chronological version .
While perhaps less ambitiously evangelical than CBN 's project , Zondervan 's efforts are elaborate .
By the early 1980s , the company 's readable yet literal-minded New International Version was enjoying ecumenical appeal .
But it took a niche-marketing approach , led by Mr. Ryskamp , to make sales boom .
Mr. Ryskamp has introduced more than two dozen different splinter editions , helping raise Zondervan 's Bible sales to more than $ 21 million last year , from $ 11.6 million in 1982 .
The NIV 's share of retail Bible sales has risen to some 30 % -- for the first time eclipsing , on a current basis , the venerable King James Version , a public-domain translation put out by several concerns .
Zondervan has targeted , among other segments , the Missouri Synod of Lutherans , with an edition featuring doctrinal notes ; scholars , with five study editions ; and schoolchildren , with an edition bound ruggedly like a textbook and printed in sans-serif type .
Now Mr. Ryskamp is pondering a large-print edition , in five volumes for easy handling ; the book might carry added advice about death , illness , inheritance and other topics of interest to the elderly .
Other possibilities : a Spanish-and-English edition aimed at Hispanic immigrants , and one for blacks , perhaps with `` black-English '' references .
Faced with the innovative competition and an overall flat market since 1984 , Nelson , the biggest U.S. religious publisher , lost market share and now is trying to recover ground .
Its `` Precious Moments Bible , '' illustrated with a popular line of cherubic children 's characters , has sold more than a million copies in about a year .
Still , not all marketing strategies deliver .
A spokesman for Reader 's Digest Association Inc. says the Pleasantville , N.Y. , publisher is `` generally pleased '' with sales of more than 500,000 copies of its condensed edition , introduced in 1982 .
But others maintain that the book has n't materialized as the significant competitor it was expected to be .
And in their rush to create new versions , the publishers still arouse controversy .
Some have gotten themselves into a theological thicket over the Apocrypha , for example , a group of books in the Roman Catholic Bible that Protestants do n't recognize .
Zondervan , from a fundamentalist Protestant heritage , is hesitant about an NIV translation of the Apocrypha .
But Nelson is pursuing the Catholic market with editions that include it -- prompting criticism from some members of the larger Protestant market .
More troubling to publishers -- many of whom have evangelical as well as commercial motives -- are indications of a different problem : Despite the sales efforts , the number of regular Bible readers may be slipping .
A Gallup survey this year found that only 11 % of the respondents had said they read the Bible daily , compared with 15 % in a 1982 survey .
Says Mr. Ryskamp : `` All we can do is get the Bible to them .
After that , it 's in God 's hands . ''
Cook United Inc. estimated that it will report net income of about $ 28 million for the year ended Jan. 31 , compared with a year-earlier loss of $ 30.8 million .
It estimated that sales totaled $ 217 million , compared with the year-earlier $ 257 million .
Cook , which emerged Oct. 13 from bankruptcy-law protection , estimated that it had a loss of $ 16 million before a special credit of about $ 44 million .
The credit resulted mainly from forgiveness of debt as a result of its bankruptcy-law reorganization .
Cook did n't estimate fourth-quarter results .
However , the indicated fourth-quarter net loss is about $ 10 million .
For the nine months ended Nov. 8 , Cook reported a loss of $ 6.5 million before the one-time credit , on sales of $ 159.1 million .
The credit of about $ 44 million made net income $ 38.2 million , or $ 5.26 a share .
In the year-earlier period , Cook posted a net loss of $ 20.8 million on sales of $ 189.6 million .
Cook , an operator of discount stores , added that it has closed several unprofitable stores and begun discussions with private investors about acquiring stock in the company .
As part of its reorganization , several creditors forgave debt for equity in Cook .
The company currently has 10 million shares outstanding .
Spear , Leeds & Kellogg , a New York brokerage partnership , said it bought a 7.1 % stake in Allegheny International Inc. 's $ 11.25 convertible preferred stock .
Separately , Memphis-based Southeastern Asset Management Inc. said it sold its entire 5.6 % stake in Pittsburgh-based Allegheny 's common shares outstanding .
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , Spear Leeds said it holds 136,300 of the preferred shares , purchased between March 9 and last Monday for $ 84 to $ 86.37 each .
According to the filing , the partnership bought the stock `` in the ordinary course of its trading activities . ''
Southeastern said in an SEC filing that it sold its 604,000 Allegheny common shares between March 13 and last Monday for $ 24.25 to $ 24.625 each .
It did n't give a reason for the sales .
Allegheny International makes consumer and industrial products .
A top official of Exxon Corp. said the company now considers an eventual significant rise in the price of oil to be `` inevitable . ''
In a speech delivered to the Australian Petroleum Exploration Association , Donald K. McIvor , an Exxon senior vice president , said that the world is consuming about twice as much petroleum as is being found and that almost all the world 's excess oil-producing capacity , estimated at 20 % , lies in the Middle East .
`` Unless huge new discoveries are made -- an unlikely event in my view -- we 're going to become increasingly dependent on the large remaining reserves of a few Middle East countries , '' he said .
Mr. McIvor 's comments were the first definitive declaration that the world 's largest oil company expects a significant recovery in oil prices .
Responsible for Exxon 's world-wide exploration and development activities , Mr. McIvor was to deliver the speech in Queensland , Australia , Monday morning -LRB- yesterday at 7:30 p.m. EST -RRB- but was unable to because of schedule changes .
His comments were delivered instead by Stuart R. McGill , chairman of Esso Australia Ltd. , an unit of New York-based Exxon .
As previously reported , Lawrence G. Rawl , Exxon 's chairman , and Lee R. Raymond , president , said that Exxon 's internal planning is based on the price of oil staying relatively flat -- in real terms -- for a few years and then rising faster than the rate of inflation .
Though Mr. McIvor was n't specific on the timing , he did stress in his speech that `` it seems inevitable that the price of oil must rise significantly again before too long . ''
Mr. McIvor noted that the world has been using oil at rates of 20 billion to 25 billion barrels a year since 1970 , while discoveries have been accumulating at only 10 billion to 15 billion barrels a year .
`` This means that , to a significant degree , we 're using up the inventory found prior to 1970 at an increasing rate , '' he said .
Although 30,000 oil fields have been discovered in the world to date , Mr. McIvor said , 35 % of all the oil ever found is in just 37 fields , and all but 11 of these `` super giants '' are in the Middle East .
Moreover , he said , only five super-giant fields have been found in the past 20 years , and only two of these -- Prudhoe Bay in the U.S. and Cantarell in Mexico -- are outside the Middle East .
`` As supply and demand come closer together , as they must do at some point , the world 's spare capacity is going to be in a very few countries , '' he said .
Mr. McIvor stressed that he is n't dismissing continued oil exploration as fruitless .
He cited `` definite potential '' for economic exploration and development of oil outside the Middle East .
`` Valuable discoveries continue to be made each year in scores of countries around the world , '' he said .
Nonetheless , he said , `` most major consuming countries , including those with substantial production of their own , will ultimately come to depend heavily on Middle East oil . ''
Exxon is more sanguine on the outlook for world-wide natural gas supplies .
Natural gas `` will have the opportunity to become an increasingly important part of the world 's energy supply , '' Mr. McIvor said .
And as oil prices rise , he added , nonconventional sources such as shale oil and the conversion of natural gas and coal to synthetic oil will become important .
If the Guggenheim Museum tinkered with art the way it does with Frank Lloyd Wright 's building , nobody would give it any .
Wright 's dynamic 1959 masterwork , his only building in New York , is arguably the most interesting sculpture the museum has .
Already , in 1968 , the museum attached to its northern side an ugly , lozenge-decorated annex .
Only a few years later , museum officials inserted a bookstore and restaurant into the ground floor of the smaller rotunda .
Filling in this open area under the spiral drastically reduced the museum 's swirl and swagger .
It 's not an architectural record inspiring any confidence , but now the museum , still under the same director , Thomas Messer , is proposing another , much-larger addition to Wright 's building .
Having withdrawn an earlier design , the museum has a revised plan by the same architecture firm , Gwathmey Siegel , speeding through city channels .
Not an inch of it suggests any new recognition on the museum 's part of the uniqueness of a building to which it now hopes to affix a mediocre and unnecessary addition by maneuvering its way around zoning regulations .
This all-consuming effort to alleviate a self-inflicted space crunch -LRB- why did the museum accept thousands of art works it knew could never be exhibited ? -RRB- began last year with the museum 's first proposal for a 162-foot-high , cantilevered and tiled box over the smaller rotunda .
Many meetings , press conferences and hearings later , the museum thought better of it .
`` We came to feel we would be well-advised not to press our suit too far , '' said Mr. Messer explaining this decision as he simultaneously introduced the new design earlier this January .
Was that ever a sound feeling -- and a clever move .
No seismograph was necessary to sense that the Board of Standards and Appeals -- whose approval the museum needs for its zoning variances -- thought the first proposal as preposterous as the presentation .
Are you saying Wright 's building is `` functionally obsolete '' and no longer suited `` for the full and expanded mission of the Guggenheim ? '' asked the caustic head of the BSA , Sylvia Deutsch .
She had just endured the museum director 's anguished litany of what a big bother Wright 's building was to operate .
And she had witnessed an endless parade of backslapping , artspeak-spouting museumniks , who all proved as embarrassing for the museum 's cause as the proposed addition 's startling resemblance to a flush toilet .
A fit of creativity has now replaced this curiosity with an outsized filing cabinet .
Meant for insertion behind the museum , this 133-foot-high limestone-clad structure uses the foundations of the annex that will be torn down .
It 's an improvement over the first proposal , all right , but that 's not saying very much at all .
This addition is n't really architecture ; it 's strategy .
While seeming humble , and cutting a few feet here and a few inches there , the museum is still doing exactly what it should n't and need n't be doing : planning to mess with a 20th-century monument .
Currently , there 's still some air around Wright 's museum .
Nothing interferes with the big rotunda 's dimensional presence .
Putting a slab partly behind it not only dwarfs the entire museum , it anchors the rotunda and eliminates the upward sweep and flow of the arc .
The addition does n't , of course , need to be this high .
The slab 's top is filled with offices , which the museum refuses to relocate up the block where real estate has been readily available .
Neither has it seriously explored going underground for space .
At a recent hearing , architect Charles Gwathmey made excavating two floors sound as difficult as drilling a hole to China .
His view contrasts with that of excavation specialist Mel Febesh .
`` We do this kind of work every day .
Safely , '' says Mr. Febesh , president of Urban Substructures Inc. , which was hired by Guggenheim Neighbors , a group opposing the slab .
In terms of space and cost , an underground vault compares favorably with above-ground construction .
So this obsession with wing-building only makes any sense if one realizes that it is an essential element in landing 10 canvases by impressionist and modern masters belonging to Mrs. Justin Thannhauser , whose late husband is already memorialized in the museum 's permanent collection .
Museum officials will n't disclose details of the proposed bequest , but you can bet that the new addition will be emblazoned with the Thannhauser name , in another example of the death-defying egotism that already haunts so many museums .
Perhaps more information will be divulged when the museum pleads its bogus case in front of the BSA next month .
Its chances are better than before , with the museum 's tactic of proposing something so horrible and then kindly substituting something less offensive , reducing a few critics to slobbering gratitude .
Ms. Deutsch , whose acute questions at last year 's hearings sent the museum into appalled huddles , has moved to the City Planning Commission .
The feisty opposition group is deeply in debt and has been hard put to combat the museum 's flashy P.R. outfit , its expensive lawyers and puissant board .
But its battle is worth supporting .
New York has only one Guggenheim .
Let 's keep it the way Wright built it .
Since 1982 , foreign manufacturers have enjoyed considerably lower labor costs than U.S. companies .
But the gap between U.S. and foreign pay is disappearing quickly , a clear sign that the falling dollar is improving the ability of American manufacturers to compete in world markets .
From 1982 to 1985 , for example , the hourly compensation , when converted to dollars , of Japanese production workers was 50 % of U.S. compensation costs .
This gave Japanese manufacturers a huge cost advantage over U.S. companies .
But by the end of January , Japanese compensation costs had risen to 79 % of the U.S. level , according to estimates by the Bureau of Labor Statistics .
Largely because of the falling dollar , West German labor costs rose to 120 % of those for U.S. production workers from 75 % in 1985 .
Total compensation costs -- wages plus benefits -- for workers in Sweden and several other European countries also top U.S. levels .
`` That 's a good sign that the U.S. is regaining its ability to compete , '' says C. Fred Bergsten , director of the Institute for International Economics in Washington .
The U.S. must increase its exports , both to fuel domestic economic growth and to reduce the trade deficit -- nearly $ 170 billion last year -- which has helped make the U.S. a debtor nation and strained the world economy .
`` Virtually all of the trade improvement must come in the manufactured sector , since agriculture faces a persistent world glut and the services account -- which includes the growing burden of interest payments on the foreign debt -- will be worsening , '' Mr. Bergsten says .
With the falling dollar , U.S. manufacturers are in a pretty good position to compete on world markets .
Manufacturing productivity has risen smartly .
`` Since the business cycle peak in the third quarter of 1981 , output per hour in manufacturing has grown at an average annual rate of 3.8 % , '' according to the 1987 report of the Council of Economic Advisers .
This is `` 46 % faster than the postwar average of 2.6 % per year and more than twice the annual average rate of 1.5 % recorded between 1973 and 1981 . ''
The combination of rising productivity and low wage increases has held in unit labor costs for manufacturers to an average annual rise of 0.7 % since 1981 , about one-fifth of the postwar average of 3.4 % .
In fact , unit labor costs have risen less in the U.S. than in other industrial countries .
U.S. costs rose 11.2 % between 1980 and 1985 , compared with a rise of 16.3 % in 11 industrial nations -- Belgium , Canada , Denmark , France , West Germany , Italy , Japan , the Netherlands , Norway , Sweden and the United Kingdom .
`` In the absence of other developments , the relatively better U.S. performance . . . would have improved U.S. international cost competitiveness , '' the CEA notes .
But the U.S. advantage was completely overwhelmed by the rapid rise of the dollar .
When measured on a dollar basis , foreign unit labor costs actually fell 19.7 % between 1980 and 1985 .
However , that gap has been shrinking rapidly with the dollar 's fall .
A look at Japan shows why .
According to the BLS , total hourly compensation for production workers rose to 1,599 yen in 1986 , up only 3.8 % from 1,539 yen in 1985 .
But when the yen wages are converted to dollars to show the impact of exchange rates , compensation rose 47 % to the equivalent of $ 9.50 in 1986 from $ 6.45 in 1985 .
This is how a Japanese exporter earning revenues in dollars might look at his labor costs .
To compensate for the rising yen , Japanese manufacturers are doing exactly what U.S. factories did to cut costs when the dollar was high -- laying off workers , building plants abroad and purchasing more goods from countries such as Taiwan and South Korea , where wages still are low .
Although the dollar began to fall two years ago , U.S. trade performance is just beginning to turn around .
In the final quarter of 1986 , net real exports -- the difference between exports and imports adjusted for inflation -- improved by 15.3 % , a significant gain after six years of deterioration .
Rising import prices are crimping demand for foreign goods and `` there are encouraging signs from manufacturers that orders from Europe and Japan are picking up , '' says Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates .
The aircraft , computer , electrical machinery , paper , lumber and chemical industries are `` experiencing noticeable upswings in foreign demand , '' Wharton says .
The dollar 's recent fall should further increase exports , which must expand dramatically to cure America 's trade problem .
`` The U.S. , as a debtor country , will have to stop spending more than it produces , '' Mr. Bergsten says .
`` America for many years to come will be producing goods and services for consumption in the rest of the world , in a reversal of the buying-on-credit binge of the past half decade . ''
The closing wage gap is crucial to that transition .
Standard & Poor 's Corp. said it downgraded the senior debt ratings of this Westboro , Mass.-based computer maker to triple-B-plus from single-A-minus .
About $ 184 million of debt is affected .
S&P cited `` expectations of continued profit pressures '' for the company .
`` Incoming orders remain lackluster , which will probably inhibit any significant 1987 profit rebound from recent near break-even levels , '' the ratings concern said .
Data General could n't be reached for comment .
The Reagan administration is likely to decide this week to impose sanctions on Japanese microchip-makers for violating last summer 's semiconductor trade accord .
At a meeting Friday , a subcabinet task force reviewed new Commerce Department data and concluded that Japanese manufacturers are continuing to dump their products in third-country markets despite a provision in the July 31 agreement that prohibits such practices .
The group renewed a recommendation made in late February that the U.S. take punitive action .
Dumping is selling in foreign markets at prices below the cost of production or fair market value at home .
The issue next goes to the cabinet-level Economic Policy Council , which has scheduled a meeting for mid-week .
Although that panel could postpone any judgments in the case , U.S. officials say it 's almost certain to recommend sanctions .
Late Friday , officers of several U.S. semiconductor makers met with Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige and a group of senators and congressmen to renew their plea for sanctions .
The panel also is slated to consider whether to retaliate against the Japanese government for refusing to buy U.S.-made supercomputers .
Although American manufacturers clearly hold the lead in these highly sophisticated products , Tokyo has rejected U.S. pleas that it force its ministries and agencies to relax their ban on importing these devices .
The issue has become an emotional one here in the U.S. American manufacturers already sell supercomputers to non-government buyers in Japan .
U.S. trade strategists still have n't decided precisely how to retaliate on the semiconductor issue .
They say the most likely option would be for the U.S. to impose punitive tariffs on Japanese products -- such as laser-printers -- that use semiconductors .
They would do that , rather than trying to limit imports of microchips themselves , to avoid hurting U.S. corporations that use imported microchips in the products they make .
Even if the Economic Policy Council agrees to retaliate against the Japanese , the sanctions probably would n't take effect until mid-April .
Current practices require U.S. officials to draw up a list of potential targets and allow affected parties here to comment on their likely impact .
Washington followed similar procedures earlier this year in imposing tariffs on European wine and cheese imports in retaliation for new Common Market tariffs on U.S. agricultural exports .
The two sides later worked out a settlement , and the retaliatory tariffs were withdrawn .
The council action this week will n't deal with charges by U.S. chipmakers that Japan has n't lived up to promises in the semiconductor accord that it allow U.S. manufacturers to gain a larger share of the microchip market in Japan .
The subcabinet-level meeting Friday came as the Japanese government , in an 11th-hour effort to ward off U.S. retaliation , told heads of 10 large Japanese semiconductor makers to increase their purchases of foreign-made microchips and to stop dumping in foreign markets .
The plea came from Hajime Tamura , the country 's trade minister .
U.S. officials said it was unlikely that Mr. Tamura 's action would have any effect on the Economic Policy Council 's decision this week .
The U.S. warned Japan in November that U.S. manufacturers were unhappy with the way the pact was being enforced .
Tokyo has announced several moves to crack down on violations , but so far none has succeeded .
Separately , the two countries announced that Japan has agreed to open its markets to U.S. exports of processed pollack and herring .
Import quotas have barred such sales in the past .
Specifically , Japan will broaden its quota system and issue enough import licenses to accommodate all U.S. exports of these products .
U.S. officials estimate that the move will result in $ 85 million in additional U.S. sales this year , and that such sales eventually could grow to $ 300 million annually .
The U.S.-Japan semiconductor accord , negotiated at the request of some U.S. microchip makers , provided for Japanese producers to stop dumping both here and in third-country markets .
It also called on Japan to allow U.S. producers a larger share of Japan 's own market .
However , because the dumping involves actions by private concerns rather than by the Japanese government , it has proved difficult to enforce .
Treatment for the ailing heart may soon get better , but scientists say it will n't get simpler .
Tissue plasminogen activator , Genentech Inc. 's promising clot-dissolving drug , may win Food and Drug Administration approval in a few months as a treatment for heart attack -- an event that befalls 1.5 million Americans a year and kills 550,000 of them .
Twice as effective as conventional clot dissolvers , with less internal bleeding and bruising , TPA is expected to become biotechnology 's first billion-dollar product by the early 1990s .
Researchers now speak of expanding its use to a panoply of cardiovascular diseases .
But what the public may not realize in the early excitement over TPA is that high dosages of the drug still pose a risk of internal bleeding , and that not all heart-attack patients are appropriate candidates for it .
Further , despite TPA 's apparent superiority over conventional therapy in prolonging life , statistical proof remains elusive .
Although these complications have been discussed in medical circles , popular news articles about TPA -- and even Genentech itself -- appear to have underplayed side effects .
The company 's annual report , for example , has a dramatic photo of a patient receiving intravenous TPA en route to a hospital .
However , Genentech 's top management now disavows any early hope of widespread paramedic application .
One result of minimizing problems with the drug may be disappointment for people who had hoped to see it used widely and freely .
Another may be that patients who should n't take TPA will press their doctors to prescribe it .
`` The use of this drug is n't idiot-proof , '' Eugene Braunwald of the Harvard Medical School told scientists and doctors at a recent Harvard-Genentech seminar on TPA in New Orleans .
TPA `` is going to be an enormous challenge to the medical profession , '' he added .
Scientists agreed that expert medical care and control must guide TPA 's administration .
TPA dazzled the medical world in 1985 , when the National Heart , Lung and Blood Institute reported the drug had opened clogged arteries in 66 % of test patients -- twice as many as the the previously most potent clot-dissolving agent , streptokinase , made by the U.S. unit of Hoechst AG of West Germany and by Kabivitrum AB of Sweden .
By now , TPA has been given to about 4,000 patients world-wide , and its clot-dissolving record tops 80 % .
But balancing bleeding and clotting is complex .
Researchers recently disclosed that more than 1 % of patients in a later phase of the institute 's study suffered bleeding in the brain while on a high-dose regimen .
`` I do n't want to suggest that we can use infinitely high-dose TPA , or even a modest dose for an extended period , without the risks of bleeding , '' said Burton Sobel of Washington University , St. Louis .
Nor is TPA the solution for all heart-attack patients .
It works better in a first heart attack than in later ones , says Eugene Passamani , a clinical researcher at the heart institute .
And it should be used soon after an attack , but researchers at New Orleans differed on whether the cutoff should be at four hours , six hours or later .
Some researchers say TPA 's use should be restricted to patients with `` anterior myocardial infarct , '' a serious heart attack damaging the heart 's forewall .
Finally , bleeding risks grow in patients over 70 .
Because heavy demand is expected for the drug , some analysts distinguish between how many people should get TPA and how many people will get it .
Robert Kupor , an analyst at Cable Howse & Ragen of Seattle , contends that 250,000 to 300,000 should get the drug .
`` But , '' he says , `` probably -LRB- 500,000 -RRB- patients actually will get it due to pressure on doctors in marginal cases . ''
On that basis , he projects probable U.S. sales totaling $ 700 million to $ 750 million in 1990 , with royalties from foreign licenses boosting final TPA revenue to $ 850 million .
Genentech calculates the `` eligible population '' at about 750,000 a year .
But early indiscriminate demand for TPA may be tempered as patients encounter bleeding , says M. Kathleen Behrens , an analyst with Robertson , Colman & Stephens in San Francisco .
Doctors are bracing for lawsuits .
If malpractice experience with streptokinase is a guide , doctors will be sued for giving the drug -- if a patient bleeds -- or for withholding it .
How well TPA will improve the survival rate of heart-attack patients is n't clear .
Genentech scientists infer that , because streptokinase clearly saved lives in European studies and because TPA dissolves clots better than streptokinase , TPA will improve survival significantly .
But current statistics are equivocal .
Dr. Passamani of the heart institute says it would take many more thousands of test patients to prove TPA 's superiority .
Meanwhile , other researchers are testing TPA in other cardiovascular diseases .
These include : unstable angina , the chest pain that may precede heart attack ; pulmonary embolism , a blood clot in the lung ; and peripheral arterial occlusion , blockage often due to a leg clot .
Chest pain , sometimes from clot buildup in the heart , affects millions of Americans , some of whom later suffer heart attacks .
Herman K. `` Chip '' Gold , a researcher at Harvard and the Massachusetts General Hospital , studied about two dozen angina patients , giving half TPA and half a placebo .
Pain persisted in six of 11 placebo patients but in only one of 12 TPA patients .
Eleven of the TPA patients bled , only three of them seriously .
Dr. Gold , who also serves as a consultant for Genentech , asserts that further angina studies may lead to a role for TPA in preventing heart attack .
Pulmonary embolism can lead to heart dysfunction , hypertension and death .
But Samuel Z. Goldhaber of Harvard and Brigham and Women 's Hospital in Boston reported that TPA dissolved lung clots in 44 of 47 patients he tested , most without major complications .
However , he noted that two of them bled seriously enough to require surgery .
Peripheral artery blockage responded well to TPA in early tests , according to Robert Graor of the Cleveland Clinic .
Dr. Graor told the New Orleans group that clots dissolved in 61 of 65 such patients , although 76 % of them also required later surgery or angioplasty .
He believes TPA is safer than streptokinase .
Despite Genentech 's long head start in developing and marketing TPA , it has aggressive competition from the team of Genetics Institute Inc. of Cambridge , Mass. , and Wellcome PLC of London , which goes to court in June to try to block Genentech 's UK patent on TPA. Other contenders include the Swiss-American Biogen Inc. , Integrated Genetics Inc. , Eli Lilly & Co. and Chiron Corp. .
Just as penicillin ushered in a new age of antibiotics , some analysts say TPA may eventually head a group of new clot-dissolving substances .
Beecham Laboratories , a unit of Beecham Group of London , is developing a form of streptokinase called `` APSAC . ''
NATIONAL DATA COMMUNICATIONS INC. shares were quoted Wednesday at 12.5 cents bid in over-the-counter trading .
The quote was misstated in an earlier edition .
-LRB- See : `` National Data Holder Agrees to Rescind Pact on Additional Shares '' -- WSJ March 19 , 1987 -RRB-
A couple of years back , two businessmen on the make tried to steal $ 36.5 million from four banks and a savings and loan association .
And without pointing a gun at anybody , they actually made off with $ 13.5 million .
Their .370 batting average was n't bad , but they got caught .
The story of John A. Grambling Jr. and Robert H. Libman , one of the most bizarre in recent banking history , came to light in 1985 and 1986 , as the Manhattan district attorney 's office in New York was investigating and prosecuting the partners .
Court records and interviews with investigators and bank officials show that the tale begins at the end of 1984 , when Messrs .
Grambling and Libman heard that Husky Oil Ltd. wanted to sell its U.S. refineries and gas stations for tax reasons .
Their acquisitive instincts aroused , the two men set out to buy what Husky was selling .
Never mind that they were broke and that Husky 's asking price approached $ 100 million .
Messrs .
Grambling and Libman were n't well known in the business world , either , though Mr. Grambling 's father had once been the president of the Texas Bar Association and the family is prominent in El Paso .
The partners ' scheme involved hitting up Bank of Montreal for $ 75 million .
With their loan application , they submitted a detailed balance sheet for Mr. Libman , who is 57 years old , showing his net worth to be $ 23 million .
His listed assets ranged from $ 17.5 million in marketable securities to two Jaguar XJ6s valued at $ 68,000 .
The bank refused them the $ 75 million but did agree to lend Mr. Grambling $ 7.5 million in interim financing after he offered as collateral 375,000 shares of Dr Pepper stock with a market price of $ 8,252,992 .
The shares were to be delivered to the bank .
The closing of Mr. Grambling 's loan took place Dec. 28 , 1984 , in New York , where Mr. Grambling 's former employer , Lazard Freres & Co. , was supposedly holding his Dr Pepper shares for him .
Mr. Grambling , who is 36 years old , had been an associate investment banker at Lazard .
The document assigning the stock to Bank of Montreal bore the signatures of Peter Corcoran , a longtime Lazard partner , and Robert Wilkis , a Lazard vice president .
At the end of the loan closing , when everything seemed to be in order , a call was placed to Ivor Hopkyns , the Bank of Montreal official handling the loan in Canada .
And before he would release the $ 7.5 million to Mr. Grambling , Mr. Hopkyns wanted to chat with Mr. Corcoran .
Mr. Grambling said that he would have to get Mr. Corcoran 's phone number in Florida , where the Lazard official was on vacation .
That done , Messrs .
Hopkyns and Corcoran spoke briefly , and Mr. Grambling got his $ 7.5 million .
Bank of Montreal did n't yet have possession of the promised collateral , which under the terms of the transaction did n't have to be delivered to the bank until Jan. 22 , 1985 , more than three weeks after the bank let the money loose to Mr. Grambling .
On Jan. 15 , Ivor Hopkyns phoned Mr. Wilkis at Lazard to ask after the Dr Pepper stock .
And Mr. Wilkis seemed to be irritated by the call .
He said that this was the first he had heard about any such deal .
To the consternation of Mr. Hopkyns , the conversation went something like this -LRB- according to both men involved -RRB- :
Mr. Hopkyns : But you signed the loan agreement .
Mr. Wilkis : I did n't sign any agreement .
Mr. Hopkyns : But I 've got the document right in front of me , signed Robert W. Wilkis .
Mr. Wilkis : You 've got a problem .
My middle initial is M , not W .
Mr. Hopkyns , alarmed , then phoned Mr. Corcoran at Lazard and got another shock .
When he heard the voice , he realized at once that the Mr. Corcoran he was talking to sounded not at all like the Mr. Corcoran he had phoned in Florida .
The truth was that Mr. Grambling did n't own a single share of Dr Pepper .
The documents were forged ; so were the signatures of Messrs .
Corcoran and Wilkis .
The Libman balance sheet was made out of whole cloth .
The Peter Corcoran that Ivor Hopkyns had phoned in Florida was , in reality , Robert H. Libman doing an impersonation .
Before the day was out , a worried Mr. Hopkyns phoned Mr. Grambling , who did his best to reassure him .
Mr. Grambling told him that there had been an administrative foul-up .
His Dr Pepper shares had mistakenly been transferred to Coronado Bank in El Paso .
He promised to straighten things out .
And , as a gesture of good faith , he volunteered to send Bank of Montreal an unscheduled payment of $ 2 million , even though the bank was n't due to get its $ 8 million in collateral for another seven days .
However , among the facts Mr. Grambling failed to disclose to Mr. Hopkyns was that , to keep other creditors at bay , he had spent nearly all the $ 7.5 million he had borrowed less than three weeks earlier .
And , of course , he still faced the problem of producing the nonexistent Dr Pepper shares .
The $ 2 million Mr. Grambling then actually did send to Bank of Montreal compounded his financial problems because it came from the proceeds of a $ 6 million loan he had just obtained , fraudulently , from Colorado National Bank of Denver .
Initially , Mr. Grambling had asked Colorado National to lend him $ 100 million .
Thomas Foncannon , a Colorado National vice president , said in an affidavit that a loan of $ 100 million was `` quite a bit larger than the bank was comfortable with . ''
Mr. Grambling promptly lowered his sights .
He said he had interim financing requirements in the Husky Oil deal that the bank could help him with .
Which is how Colorado National came to lend him the $ 6 million .
He got the loan after giving the bank his personal financial statement , which was even more fanciful than Mr. Libman 's .
The statement reported total assets of $ 40 million , net worth of $ 39 million and annual income of $ 908,000 .
Mr. Foncannon said in his affidavit that his calls to several banks inquiring about Mr. Grambling 's reputation had turned up nothing to be concerned about .
Indeed , several bankers actually praised Mr. Grambling .
For instance , according to Mr. Foncannon , Charles Worth , a vice president of Arizona 's Bank of Scottsdale , characterized his banking relationship with Mr. Grambling as `` super . ''
Boy and man , John Grambling was always popular .
In high school , he was a member of the speech team .
As an undergraduate at Southern Methodist University , he was elected president of his dormitory and an officer of his fraternity .
He was bright , too .
He earned an M.B.A. degree at the Wharton School of Finance .
A schoolmate characterized him as the last person anyone would suspect of fraud .
But , with bankers , he had more than a winning personality going for him .
In at least three instances , he had made loan repayments ahead of schedule .
He repaid $ 708,000 to Bank of Scottsdale , $ 1.8 million to American Bank of Commerce in El Paso and $ 418,000 to First Financial Bank of El Paso .
These payments depleted the $ 7.5 million he had borrowed from Bank of Montreal by $ 2.9 million but made him look like a better risk .
What Messrs .
Grambling and Libman were up to here was a Ponzi scheme , which works like this : You fraudulently obtain a loan from Bank A .
You go on to Bank B and get another loan , using some of Bank B 's proceeds to pay back some of your debt to Bank A .
That keeps creditors satisfied temporarily and preserves your credit rating for a foray against Bank C .
Brian Rosner , an assistant district attorney in Manhattan who eventually prosecuted Messrs .
Grambling and Libman for bank fraud , says of the Ponzi ploy : `` It 's called robbing Peter to pay Paul , and as long as it works -- as long as the money comes in -- no one knows he 's being victimized . ''
Besides , he says , `` No one is more complacent than a banker who has been repaid . ''
But Bank of Montreal officials -- anything but complacent -- instructed their New York law firm , Shearman & Sterling , to alert the Manhattan district attorney 's office to possible crimes within its jurisdiction by Messrs .
Grambling and Libman .
This warning came in early February of 1985 , and it signaled trouble for the two freebooters , even though they were well on their way to pulling off three more swindles .
Their targets and the amounts they sought to borrow -LRB- or steal -RRB- :
First Security Bank of Utah in Salt Lake City -- $ 8 million .
First Interstate Bank of Denver -- $ 5 million .
Security Savings & Loan Association , Jackson , Miss. $ 10 million .
Again , Mr. Grambling used his well-tested techniques for separating bankers from their money .
He doctored loan agreements and other documents .
Once more , he wildly misrepresented his net assets .
And he got Mr. Libman to do some new impersonations on the telephone .
Mr. Grambling 's effort to get millions from First Security Bank came within a whisker of succeeding .
He submitted a financial statement to First Security attesting that he owned 358,600 shares of Southern Union Co. stock , shares that had a market value of nearly $ 10 million .
And he offered the stock , which , as usual , he did n't truly own , as collateral .
To further deceive First Security , he set up a conference call between the bank 's loan committee and Mr. Libman posing as Blair Mullin , an actual official of Bank of Montreal .
As additional collateral , the loan committee accepted the fake Mr. Mullin 's assurances that the Utah bank would have recourse to funds from a loan Mr. Grambling was negotiating with Bank of Montreal .
So assured , the First Security committee agreed to lend him the money .
But at the 11th hour , First Security got lucky .
Scott Clark , a lawyer representing the Utah bank , phoned a man who supposedly was Ronald Keenan , the president of Coronado Bank in El Paso , where Mr. Grambling did some of his banking business .
Mr. Keenan was portrayed for this occasion by an unidentified impostor -LRB- not by Mr. Libman this time -RRB- .
Mr. Clark , who was looking for an agent to hold the 358,600 Southern Union shares and to arrange for their delivery to Salt Lake City , asked who currently had custody of the stock .
`` Mr .
Keenan '' replied that the local Merrill Lynch office had the certificates .
Mr. Clark agreed quickly on Merrill Lynch as the agent because it had an office in the bank 's Salt Lake City building , which would facilitate delivery of the stock .
That news jolted the ersatz Mr. Keenan , who knew the Southern Union stock was a figment .
He said that he had better confirm that Merrill Lynch did actually hold the certificates .
He hung up and called back shortly to say he had been mistaken .
The shares were in the hands of E.F. Hutton 's El Paso office , Mr. Keenan said .
That , too , was just fine with Mr. Clark , because Hutton also had an office in the building .
At that point , Mr. Keenan said he would again have to check on exactly where the shares reposed .
He made another call and came back on the line with the news that the stock was at Eppler , Guerin & Turner , a Texas brokerage firm with no offices whatever in Utah .
His suspicions aroused , Mr. Clark demanded to have the original Southern Union stock certificates sent directly to him .
When Mr. Grambling could n't deliver nonexistent shares , First Security slipped the swindlers ' noose .
A few weeks later , Jim Conover , a First Security official , was reminded of how close the bank had come to losing $ 8 million .
He remarked : `` It 's like Vietnam , when you heard the bullets whistling by your head . ''
Mr. Grambling went back to the well again in trying to take First Interstate Bank for $ 5 million .
His collateral consisted of phony Southern Union stock , falsely valued at more than $ 5 million .
And when it came to staging his $ 10 million raid on Security Savings & Loan , Mr. Grambling offered $ 12 million in bogus certificates of deposit .
`` That representation was false .
The certificates did not exist .
Mr. Grambling 's Xeroxes of the certificates and other documentary proof of their existence were forgeries , '' said Mr. Rosner , the Manhattan assistant district attorney in a sworn statement .
The string ran out on Mr. Grambling and Mr. Libman in the spring of 1985 , after Mr. Rosner presented evidence uncovered in the investigation of the two partners .
On May 7 , 1985 , a New York County grand jury indicted Mr. Grambling on 32 counts of bank fraud involving Bank of Montreal , Colorado National Bank , First Security Bank of Utah , First Interstate Bank of Denver and Security Savings & Loan Association of Jackson , Miss .
Mr. Libman was indicted on two counts -- a conspiracy charge and a fraud charge .
New York County got jurisdiction over the case because forged documents in the Bank of Montreal loan were submitted to the bank in Manhattan at the loan closing .
Initially , Messrs .
Grambling and Libman pleaded not guilty .
Then , last October , as their trials in a New York state court grew near , they changed their pleas to guilty .
Mr. Grambling said in his plea that , at the urging of his family , he is seeing a Yale University psychiatrist once a week .
Mr. Libman drew a six-month term in New York 's Rikers Island prison and has served his time -- four months , with time off for good behavior .
The short sentence may reflect Mr. Libman 's subordinate role , which Mr. Rosner described in a memorandum to the court : `` Although Mr. Grambling was the lead actor , Mr. Libman had more than a walk-on part . ''
Mr. Grambling has yet to be sentenced .
He faces a maximum of 20 years in prison ; fines and restitution could total $ 40.5 million .
But while free on bail , Mr. Grambling was doing business as usual , which turned out to be expensive for two new bank victims .
It also further embroiled him with the law .
Last June , Colonial Bank & Trust Co. in Chicago closed a loan of $ 350,000 with Mr. Grambling , secured again by phony collateral , this time American Brands shares with a supposed market value of more than $ 600,000 .
Mr. Grambling made off with $ 250,000 of the bank 's money before Colonial caught on and denied him the remaining $ 100,000 .
Mr. Grambling struck again in the fall , when he took CityTrust of Bridgeport , Conn. , for $ 450,000 , a loan secured by more than $ 7 million in such blue-chip stocks as J.P. Morgan , General Motors , Rockwell International , IBM and Standard Oil , all bogus .
There , he himself posed as one Robert E. Smith Jr. , a fictitious agent for an Arizona businessman .
None of the money Messrs .
Grambling and Libman obtained fraudulently from the banks and savings institutions has ever been recovered , though much of the money borrowed from one lender was later repaid to another .
Bank of Montreal , for example was repaid $ 2 million but , in the end , got stuck for $ 5.5 million .
Colorado National Bank has n't been repaid any of the $ 6 million it lent .
In December , Connecticut Bank & Trust Co. of Hartford pondered whether to lend $ 450,000 to the same Robert E. Smith Jr. but turned him -- that is , Mr. Grambling -- down .
Undaunted , Mr. Grambling approached Great American First Savings Bank of San Diego .
Again he misrepresented himself as the owner of IBM shares , which he offered as collateral for a $ 350,000 loan .
This time the gambit was disastrous for him .
On Jan. 5 , Mr. Rosner received an internal memo from Colonial Bank , which had been defrauded by Mr. Grambling more than six months earlier . -LRB- He has yet to be charged in the Colonial Bank case . -RRB-
The memo , dated Dec. 31 , 1986 , said Mr. Grambling had called Colonial that day to say he was at Great American First in San Diego .
He was there , he announced , borrowing $ 350,000 , and he would be wiring Colonial Bank the $ 250,000 he owed .
The Colonial memo ended : `` He continues to amaze . ''
Mr. Rosner promptly phoned the San Diego bank to warn of a fraud in progress .
Four days later , Mr. Grambling entered Great American First , expecting to get his $ 350,000 .
Instead , he was arrested by an FBI agent impersonating a loan officer .
Unable to make bail of $ 2 million , Mr. Grambling was jailed in San Diego , where he pleaded guilty to federal bank-fraud charges involving the Great American First loan , and he is to be sentenced today on federal charges by the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California .
Then he will be flown to New York for sentencing by the state on April 1 .
Banks that Messrs .
Grambling and Libman defrauded or tried to defraud offer various explanations -LRB- or none at all -RRB- for how such swindles can happen .
Mr. Clark , the attorney for First Security Bank of Utah , which narrowly escaped the scam , lays blame on competition and on trust .
`` Banks are highly competitive in trying to place good loans , '' he says .
In Mr. Grambling 's case , he came to the bank in the company of an executive of the Husky Oil refinery in Salt Lake City that Mr. Grambling had hoped to buy .
That association with respectability and Mr. Grambling 's `` very nice social graces '' gave him credibility with First Security .
`` There 's an enormous amount of money banks have and want to lend out , '' Mr. Clark says .
`` In New York , they want to lend it to Brazil .
In smaller cities , they like to lend it to the local refinery . ''
A banker who did fall for the scheme and who consented to an interview on the condition that his name would n't be published , says he has two ideas about avoiding future rip-offs : `` We should tighten up our internal guidelines , and we should be sure we know our borrowers . ''
He says that in many years as a banker he has grown accustomed to `` dealing with honest people 99 % of the time . ''
The banking system , he says , `` is built on trust . ''
And a person intent on bank fraud `` is going to get it done . ''
As for Mr. Grambling : `` He should be compelled to wear a bell around his neck . ''
James Bussitil , a lawyer for Bank of Montreal , said in an interview that `` the modern banking system is susceptible to fraud because banking basically operates on the basis of trust .
We made all the standard checks , and nothing turned up on Grambling . ''
Peter A. Manson , a senior vice president of Bank of Montreal , praised `` the diligence of our account managers '' in bringing to light Mr. Grambling 's fraud .
He said the incident `` has again reminded this bank , and we expect other banks . . . of the need to know your customer . ''
At the end of his spree , Mr. Grambling was hoist with his own petard .
The Great American First `` loan officer '' who nabbed him turned out to be an FBI agent .
Thus , the teacher was taught a lesson he had been busy teaching bankers : Beware of impostors .
Salim B. `` Sandy '' Lewis , a well-known arbitrager and former special adviser to the Securities and Exchange Commission , allegedly asked Boyd L. Jefferies to manipulate the stock of Fireman 's Fund Corp. last year , according to people familiar with the government 's criminal and civil cases against Mr. Jefferies .
The government announced last week that Mr. Jefferies , who resigned Thursday as chairman of the Los Angeles-based Jefferies Group Inc. securities firm , agreed to plead guilty to two felonies , one of which was related to an alleged scheme to manipulate the price of Fireman 's Fund shares just prior to a secondary stock offering by American Express Co. last May 9 .
The government said Mr. Jefferies is cooperating with the investigation .
In settling related charges , the SEC alleged Mr. Jefferies , acting pursuant to an agreement with an individual who was n't identified , bought huge blocks of Fireman 's Fund at or near the close of trading the day before the offering , thereby boosting the price on the day of the offering .
Mr. Lewis is the individual referred to by the government , the people familiar with the cases said .
His name , as well of that of his firm , S.B. Lewis & Co. , appeared on subpoenas related to the transaction issued by the government on Friday .
Mr. Lewis could n't be reached for comment .
Subpoenas were received by American Express , Fireman 's Fund 's controlling shareholder and former parent ; Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. , co-manager for the secondary offering and a unit of American Express ; and Salomon Brothers Inc. , the investment banking firm that was the other co-manager , the companies acknowledged .
Also named in subpoenas were Randall D. Smith & Co. , a small securities firm , and Randall D. Smith , the firm 's founder .
The government is seeking to determine whether anyone at American Express , Shearson Lehman or Salomon Brothers asked Mr. Lewis to set up the arrangement with Mr. Jefferies , according to the people familiar with the investigation .
They said the government is also probing the rise in the price of Fireman 's Fund shares that occurred several days earlier in the week before the public offering .
Neither Messrs .
Lewis and Smith nor anyone at any of the firms receiving subpoenas has been charged with any wrongdoing .
The government said that both SEC and criminal investigations of the matter are continuing .
Mr. Smith , who is a former partner of Bear , Stearns & Co. , did n't return phone calls .
Mr. Jefferies ' lawyer , Peter H. Morrison , declined to comment and said Mr. Jefferies was n't available .
The probe of the $ 332 million Fireman 's Fund offering marks a dramatic widening of the government 's probe of wrongdoing on Wall Street .
Not only does the offering under scrutiny involve some of the financial community 's most prestigious corporations , but it is the first indication that the scandal has spread from takeovers to the more staid world of corporate finance , traditionally the heart of investment banking .
Mr. Lewis , who is 48 years old , has long had close ties to American Express 's chairman , James D. Robinson III. American Express helped launch Mr. Lewis 's arbitrage firm in 1977 with a $ 3 million investment , and Mr. Lewis helped arrange American Express 's acquisition of Investors Diversified Services Inc. in 1983 and of Shearson in 1981 .
S.B Lewis & Co. earned a $ 3.5 million fee from the Shearson acquisition , and American Express remains a major investor in Mr. Lewis 's firm .
Mr. Lewis has often acted as an informal adviser to Mr. Robinson on matters of corporate strategy .
Mr. Robinson declined to comment on his relationship with Mr. Lewis , but he has told colleagues that he never discussed anything that could be characterized as market manipulation with Mr. Lewis and knew nothing about the alleged manipulation of Fireman 's Fund shares .
According to the people familiar with the government 's investigation , Mr. Lewis asked Mr. Jefferies to boost the price of Fireman 's Fund shares May 8 , the day before the scheduled public offering .
Fireman 's Fund shares , after rising sharply several days earlier , had begun falling as the offering approached .
Mr. Lewis agreed to reimburse Mr. Jefferies for any losses incurred on the transactions , the people said .
At or near the close of trading that day , Mr. Jefferies purchased four large blocks of stock , pushing the price of Fireman 's shares to $ 38 , at least an eighth of a point higher than the price otherwise would have been , the government said .
Mr. Jefferies subsequently sold his holdings at a loss .
As agreed , Mr. Jefferies sent S.B. Lewis & Co. an invoice for about $ 185,000 for `` investment banking services , '' the people said .
But Mr. Lewis then asked that another invoice for about $ 150,000 be sent to Smith & Co. , which is active in the junk bond market .
Smith & Co. subsequently paid the sum to Jefferies & Co. , which recorded the payment on its books as `` other income . ''
The offering was underwritten on a firm commitment basis , meaning that after the price was fixed , the underwriters bore the risk of any subsequent drop in the stock 's price .
Mr. Robinson said , `` We know of absolutely no wrongdoing by anybody at American Express , '' including Shearson Lehman .
He said that two law firms hired by the company , Willkie Farr & Gallagher and Skadden , Arps , Slate , Meagher & Flom , worked over the weekend and interviewed everybody involved in the underwriting .
Mr. Robinson , a personal friend of Mr. Lewis for many years , added , `` I would be shocked if Sandy did anything illegal . ''
A Salomon Brothers spokesman said the firm would comply with the subpoena it received and cooperate fully with the SEC .
He added that the firm knew nothing about a government investigation of the offering before last week 's announcements .
Within certain limits , it is permissible for underwriters to stabilize the price of a security in a public offering for a relatively brief period after the offering is made .
However , for anyone to manipulate the price of a security before the offering is made would be illegal .
Mr. Lewis has been a highly successful but maverick player on Wall Street .
His father was Salim Lewis , a legendary Wall Street tycoon who ran Bear Stearns until his death in 1978 .
Sandy Lewis , known equally for his intellectual brilliance , his excitability and volubility and his lack of tact , was hired and fired by several prominent firms before launching his own successful operation .
During 1977 , he became a special adviser to SEC Chairman Harold Williams .
Investors in his firm have included both Mr. Williams and another former SEC chairman , Roderick Hills , and his wife Carla Hills , former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development .
People on Wall Street expressed unusual shock at the news that Mr. Lewis had been implicated by Mr. Jefferies .
Over the years , Mr. Lewis has called for strict compliance with the securities laws and for adherence to the highest ethical standards .
Mr. Lewis once worked briefly for confessed insider trader Ivan F. Boesky , and ever since , has urged reporters and SEC officials to investigate Mr. Boesky 's activities .
It was Mr. Boesky who implicated Mr. Jefferies , who in turn has led investigators to Mr. Lewis .
INERTIA DYNAMICS CORP. declared a 3-for-2 stock split , payable May 1 to stock of record April 3 .
The company previously declared a 3-for-2 split in November 1986 .
An earlier edition misstated the amounts of the stock splits .
-LRB- See : `` Dividend News : Inertia Dynamics Corp. '' -- WSJ March 20 , 1987 -RRB-
A group of limited partners sued Ivan F. Boesky and related companies , alleging that the arbitrager misled them in the organization of his $ 1 billion investment partnership in 1986 .
And the lawsuit names a major law firm , for the first time , as a defendant in the volume of litigation growing out of the Wall Street insider-trading scandal .
The suit seeks damages from New York attorney Stephen Fraidin , as well as his law firm , Fried , Frank , Harris , Shriver & Jacobson , alleging he and the firm suggested that some of the Boesky partners invest in the venture , called Ivan F. Boesky & Co. L.P. .
It alleges the partnership documents prepared by Fried Frank , a firm that regularly represented Mr. Boesky , were misleading .
The suit also names the New York-based financial services concern of Seligmann Harris & Co. , which it says helped secure investors in the venture , and Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. , New York , investment banker for the Boesky partnership .
Two other defendants are two men who have pleaded guilty in the insider-trading scandal , Dennis Levine and Martin A. Siegel .
The former investment bankers have said they provided inside information on pending mergers and acquisitions to Mr. Boesky , who has agreed to plead guilty to a felony charge related to his insider trading .
Filed Friday in federal court in Manhattan , the lawsuit alleges that the plaintiffs were misled because the documents failed to disclose , among other things , the criminal violations to which Mr. Boesky later agreed to plead guilty .
The suit also says the prospectus failed to disclose certain financial interests of Drexel in the partnership , and declared that Mr. Boesky and his family failed , as promised , to invest at least $ 20 million in the partnership .
The suit also alleges the defendants should have registered the partnership offering with the Securities and Exchange Commission .
At Fried Frank , a major New York law firm that rarely finds itself on either end of a lawsuit , co-chairman Leon Silverman said , `` the inclusion of our law firm and one of our partners in the lawsuit is irresponsible .
`` The suit lacks any merit whatever , '' added Mr. Silverman , speaking for the firm and for Mr. Fraidin .
`` Indeed , it is revealing that plaintiffs ' counsel refused the opportunity we offered them to examine the facts before filing their lawsuit .
We leave it to others to discern the true motivations for including us in this lawsuit , but we intend to defend this litigation and we will win . ''
A Drexel Burnham spokesman said : `` Neither Drexel Burnham nor any of its employees participated in any way in the placement of the Boesky limited partnership interests .
So far as we 're concerned , the suit is a frivolous attempt to involve Drexel and is totally without merit . ''
Attorneys for Mr. Boesky declined to comment .
The lawsuit also seeks restitution or award of unspecified damages from the partnership , Mr. Boesky and related companies .
Under a partial dissolution of Mr. Boesky 's main arbitrage fund approved by the SEC last week , limited partners stand to recoup about $ 278 million of their original $ 338 million investment .
Debenture holders who provided an additional $ 660 million to Mr. Boesky 's approximately $ 1 billion fund already have been repaid .
In effect , the lawsuit is seeking to recover the rest of the limited partners ' original investment in the partnership , which has been spent in fees and lost through trading activities .
It is n't clear what other funds the Boesky companies would have available to repay the claims .
One institutional plaintiff claimed in the suit that its officials asked Mr. Boesky directly whether his claims of `` superior information and knowledge '' were based on `` inside '' information .
`` Boesky stated unequivocally that he did not use ' inside information ' and that , if he had used ' inside ' information , he would be in jail , '' the petition declared .
Home Insurance Co. alleged that it originally declined to invest in the partnership because it did n't know Mr. Boesky , but that in June 1986 , Mr. Fraidin suggested to Home that `` the opportunity to invest with Boesky was a good deal that should not be passed up , '' and he `` vouched for Boesky 's skill and integrity . ''
Brazil 's short-term financing from foreign banks could soon be cut by as much as $ 3 billion , according to bankers in the U.S. and Brazil .
Such a cut could severely damage Brazil 's trade-related businesses and make a solution to the country 's debt crisis much more difficult to achieve .
Brazil 's central bank governor , Francisco Gros , met yesterday in Miami with his country 's main creditor banks to try to resolve looming problems with money-market deposits and trade financing , but there was no indication of any concrete progress .
About $ 10 billion of trade credits and $ 5 billion of money-market deposits fall due March 31 .
Brazil froze these credits late in February , shortly after suspending interest payments on $ 67 billion of its longer-term debt to foreign banks .
The country wants to ensure that lenders will n't withdraw these short-term credits , which are essential to the smooth running of its foreign trade .
But before yesterday 's meeting , bankers in the U.S. and Brazil predicted that some of the short-term financing will be withdrawn .
Sergio de Freitas , vice president for international affairs at Brazil 's Banco Itau , said he expected a cut of `` at most 10 % '' in the $ 15 billion of credits .
Some U.S. bankers and economists , and many other Brazilian bankers , believe the cutback could reach 20 % , or $ 3 billion .
Following yesterday 's meeting , Mr. Gros said : `` We made some comments on the current Brazilian situation and what 's been happening in Brazil with economic policy . ''
Asked how Brazil 's major bankers had reacted to his presentation , Mr. Gros said : `` Their reaction was one of disappointment , which is quite understandable .
No one is particularly happy about the situation . ''
He said that he and the banks had agreed to work on a telex message over the next couple of days that will be sent to all of Brazil 's foreign creditor banks , explaining the current situation and the need for their continued support .
The telex will detail what Mr. Gros termed recent measures taken to stabilize the Brazilian economy .
But a banker who attended the meeting with Mr. Gros said that `` he did n't really have much new to say .
There 's nothing he can say . ''
The banker was skeptical about the economic progress promised by Mr. Gros .
Mr. Gros said that further meetings are n't scheduled with the creditor banks during his current visit to Miami , but that he will be available to talk to the bankers until he leaves the city tomorrow evening .
Brazil also asked its creditor banks for a three-month postponement of the $ 9.6 billion payment of debt principal due April 16 , Mr. Gros said .
This payment already was postponed once , from late 1986 .
But the immediate concern is the short-term credits .
Prior to their meeting with Mr. Gros , officials of the country 's major creditor banks said they were particularly concerned about foreign banks that have only lent money-market deposits to Brazil .
These lenders do n't have `` much of a stake in the country , '' said a senior U.S. banker , and therefore might quickly bring legal action if Brazil tried to prevent them from withdrawing their money .
Any such legal actions could quickly snowball , further complicating efforts to resolve the country 's debt crisis .
Yesterday was the first time Mr. Gros met with the full committee of the country 's major creditor banks since Brazil suspended interest payments on its $ 67 billion of medium-term and long-term debt to foreign banks on Feb. 20 .
He was somewhat conciliatory yesterday , stressing Brazil 's willingness to start paying interest again , provided there can be `` an arrangement that would allow Brazil to grow while servicing its debt . ''
But he also criticized U.S. banks for not reserving adequately against their loans to Brazil and other Latin American countries .
And he said a reappraisal of the whole debt issue is needed .
In this tense climate , major banks say they are n't ready to make up for any withdrawal of short-term credits and deposits by other banks .
Brazilian and multinational companies therefore are bracing for added difficulties with their import and export businesses , which already have been hampered by the moratorium on debt payments .
Import financing has become increasingly difficult to obtain , and maturities have been severely shortened , according to executives .
Such financing is important because many of Brazil 's exports rely on imported materials .
Most analysts believe smaller Brazilian companies , whose banking relationships are weaker , will have particular financing difficulties .
Mr. de Freitas of Banco Itau said that although he expected a drop in short-term credits and deposits , `` March 31 is not a date when everything will change .
The critical point is to know when Brazil will produce an economic policy to generate foreign exchange to pay its interest .
Until then , it 's going to be a war of attrition , a number of small events over a long period . ''
The following U.S. Treasury , corporate and municipal offerings tentatively are scheduled for sale this week , according to Dow Jones Capital Markets Report :
President Reagan 's nomination of Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman John Shad to become ambassador to the Netherlands is n't likely to lead to a letup in enforcement or reversal of any deregulatory initiatives .
No matter who succeeds Mr. Shad , the agency will n't go through a turbulent transition , administration and securities industry officials said .
`` You still have four commissioners who participated in the policy making under John Shad , '' said former Commissioner A.A. Sommer Jr. , a Washington securities lawyer .
`` They 're a pretty strong-headed bunch . ''
Over the weekend , several new names emerged as possible contenders to succeed Mr. Shad , as the White House expedited its search for candidates of sufficient stature to take over the agency amid Wall Street 's widening insider-trading scandal and the torrid debate over curbing corporate takeovers .
The list includes John Phelan , chairman of the New York Stock Exchange ; John Whitehead , deputy secretary of state and a former investment banker at Goldman , Sachs & Co. ; and New Jersey Rep. Matthew Rinaldo , the ranking Republican member of the House Commerce Committee 's finance panel , according to administration sources .
White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker met Friday with Robert Tuttle , the personnel director , to discuss several presidential appointments , including the SEC post .
`` There is not a narrow list yet , '' a senior White House official said of the SEC job .
Mr. Shad 's appointment as ambassador to the Netherlands had been rumored for eight months .
Others previously mentioned as candidates for the top SEC job -- and said to remain in the running -- are Kevin T. Duffy , a federal judge in Manhattan ; Roger Birk , former chairman of Merrill Lynch & Co. ; Arthur Leavitt Jr. , American Stock Exchange chairman ; and two SEC commissioners , Edward Fleischman and Charles Cox .
President Reagan had wanted Mr. Shad to stay on as chairman , according to administration sources .
But Mr. Shad , who already has served longer than any of his 21 predecessors , declined , saying he would prefer an ambassadorship or another post .
The timing of Mr. Shad 's departure is likely to depend on how rapidly the Senate Banking Committee moves to confirm his successor .
`` If they send up the right kind of candidate , with solid credentials and no baggage , I think Congress will act expeditiously , '' one Senate staff member said .
In a statement yesterday , William Proxmire , Senate Banking Committee chairman , spelled out what kind of candidate he has in mind , expressing the hope that the White House will look someplace other than Wall Street for a successor .
`` At this particular time , '' the Wisconsin Democrat said , `` I think we need someone who will be perceived as having absolutely no conflicts of interest in the administration of the SEC , and someone who is very tough on crime . ''
One candidate said to have such credentials is Judge Duffy , who served as the SEC 's New York regional administrator from 1969 until 1972 .
With Wall Street under a cloud of controversy , few candidates from the securities industry , if any , will be willing to subject themselves to `` microscopic analysis '' at confirmation hearings , an industry source said .
Moreover , some candidates may balk at the job because the tenure probably would end in 1988 if a Democrat is elected president .
As a result , the White House may yet turn to Mr. Cox , an economist who is second in SEC seniority , or Mr. Fleischman , a former Wall Street securities lawyer , administration sources said .
Such a move would hardly be unprecedented ; 12 commissioners have been so elevated in the commission 's 53-year history .
The 63-year-old Mr. Shad served beyond the end of his five-year term last June so that he could oversee the blitz against insider trading and shepherd several projects , including the computerization of the SEC 's corporate-disclosure filing system .
Mr. Shad , former vice chairman of E.F. Hutton Group Inc. , made his early mark as an ardent deregulator .
Since 1981 , the SEC has streamlined regulations to eliminate duplicative filings of corporate reports and to facilitate the raising of corporate capital .
The agency also reached important agreements with Switzerland , Britain , Canada and Japan to cooperate on international cases of securities fraud .
Even some friends have chided Mr. Shad for political ineptitude in his dealings with Congress , however .
And many Democrats have faulted the chairman for taking an essentially neutral stance on tender-offer regulation and letting the marketplace -- and the courts -- correct any perceived abuses .
But Mr. Shad 's overall performance drew praise .
`` On balance , Shad turned out to be a fine chairman , '' said Harvey Pitt , former SEC general counsel .
`` John Shad has been an extraordinarily responsible regulator , '' said Commissioner Joseph Grundfest .
`` He knows when to act and when to do nothing . ''
Ellen Hume contributed to this article .
Dart Group Corp. stepped up its efforts to acquire Supermarkets General Corp. , requesting access to information it said the food retailer is providing to other prospective buyers .
In a letter to Supermarkets General 's board on Friday , Herbert H. Haft and his son Robert , Dart 's chairman and president respectively , asked for a `` selling brochure '' that they said has been distributed to about 20 prospective buyers of the Woodbridge , N.J.-based food retailer .
`` We were denied that information , '' the Hafts said in the letter , `` because we would not sign an agreement prohibiting us from making a bid for Supermarkets General without its approval , as well as otherwise limiting our ability to purchase Supermarkets General 's shares . ''
The Hafts ' refusal to sign the agreement suggests that Landover , Md.-based Dart is contemplating a hostile tender offer if it can n't coax Supermarkets General into accepting the $ 1.62 billion takeover proposal it made two weeks ago .
In an interview yesterday , Robert Haft declined to comment on that possibility .
`` We feel that ultimately we 'll be the purchaser of the company , '' he said .
`` They 've clearly put the company up for sale . ''
As previously reported , Supermarkets General , in an apparent attempt to resist Dart 's unsolicited bid of $ 41.75 a share , has been weighing its options .
These include seeking another suitor , taking the company private , buying back some shares and making an acquisition of its own .
The company has indicated a strong desire to remain independent .
Dart has tried to woo Supermarkets General by saying all terms of its offer are negotiable , including the price .
In addition , the discount retailer said it did n't intend to increase its stake in Supermarkets General as long as negotiations were progressing .
Dart currently holds 1.9 million Supermarkets General shares , or less than 5 % of the food retailer 's common shares outstanding .
Mr. Haft said he and his father wrote to the Supermarkets General board `` in the hope that the board recognizes that we 're currently the only bidder and we should be included in any kind of information or access to management . ''
Robert E. Wunderle , vice president of public affairs for Supermarkets General , said the company has held `` discussions in good faith '' with the Hafts .
He added that the company is `` disappointed that -LRB- the Hafts -RRB- have chosen to publicize the contents of a letter filled with half truths and distortions . ''
He declined to elaborate .
The Hafts ' letter is `` clearly designed to pressure us into actions that we believe are not in the shareholders ' best interests , '' Mr. Wunderle said .
`` We will not succumb to that pressure , but will continue , as we have previously stated , to explore all possibilities of maximizing shareholder value . ''
Mr. Wunderle added that the company has n't yet received a report from its investment banker , Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. , on the Dart proposal and other possibilities .
In composite trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange , Supermarkets General closed at $ 42.25 , down 12.5 cents , indicating investors hope a higher bid will emerge .
Separately , Supermarkets General and certain executives were sued in state court in Delaware by a shareholder , Stanley D. Bernstein , who contends they illegally tried to thwart takeover offers and entrench themselves .
The plaintiff , who claims to represent a class of injured shareholders , is seeking an order requiring Supermarkets General to negotiate `` in good faith with all bidders . ''
In their letter , the Hafts described meetings last week with Supermarkets General 's representatives as `` not productive . ''
They said the Supermarkets General representatives outlined several proposals for payments to that company 's executives as part of a transaction .
These included payments of more than $ 5.7 million to Leonard Lieberman , the company 's chairman and chief executive officer , and two other executives as `` an immediate ' cash out ' of their severance agreements , '' according to the letter .
Mr. Haft said the implication was that Mr. Lieberman and James Dougherty , the company 's executive vice president , plan to leave the company if it is sold .
He suggested that the two executives ' interests might not reflect shareholders ' interests .
`` Every dollar paid to top management above and beyond their present agreements , is a dollar out of the shareholders ' pockets , '' he said .
Mr. Haft said the two sides never discussed the price shareholders would receive .
`` They would n't tell us whether our price was fair or adequate .
They did not give us any response to our offer . ''
Clark Equipment Co. said it bought 1,339,000 , or about 7.1 % , of its common shares for $ 26.375 apiece from an investor group it had sued for allegedly scheming to illegally take control of the company .
The truck maker said the group agreed not to buy Clark voting stock for 10 years .
Clark last week sued Arthur Goldberg , president of International Controls Inc. of Boca Raton , Fla. , who led the group , and other group members , charging that they tried to extract `` greenmail '' from Clark .
Greenmail occurs when a company buys back an investor 's stock at a premium , often under the threat of a takeover .
Mr. Goldberg said yesterday that his group sold its shares Friday at the market price on the New York Stock Exchange , and that he understands the shares were purchased by Clark .
He said his group initially bought the stock as a `` long-term investment , '' but decided to sell after recent management steps , including the adoption of an anti-takeover provision .
`` People buy shares to make a profit , and we were concerned they were doing things that would undermine that goal , '' Mr. Goldberg said .
In composite trading on the Big Board , Clark common shares closed at $ 25 , down $ 1.875 .
Earlier this month Clark adopted a `` poison pill '' takeover-defense measure and said it planned to buy back as many as three million of its 18.8 million shares in the open market .
Clark said the purchase of the investor group 's shares reduces the number it will buy under the buyback plan .
LINDA WACHNER is president of Warnaco Inc. .
In the March 20 special report on Executive Style , her name was given incorrectly .
-LCB- See : `` Executive Style -LRB- A Special Report -RRB- --- Five Future No. 1s : It 's a Good Bet That One of These Women Will Lead a Fortune 500 Firm in the 1990s '' -- WSJ March 20 , 1987 -RCB-
The British pound , leader of the recent rally in high-yielding currencies , is beginning to look too pricey , some foreign-exchange dealers say .
Although sterling is n't headed for a sharp downturn soon , several factors may stymie any significant advances , the dealers maintain .
`` We do n't see a lot of upside potential for sterling from here , but we do n't think sterling is about to collapse either , '' says Geoffrey Dennis , international economist at James Capel & Co. , a London broker .
Supporting that view is the pound 's performance in recent days .
It reached a high point of $ 1.6050 in Friday 's New York dealings , but could n't sustain that level .
And against the bellwether European currency , the pound has n't been able to break 3.00 West German marks .
Other traders , though , remain bullish about sterling 's near-term outlook .
They cite Britain 's continued high interest rates , even with the recent declines , its relatively good potential for economic growth and new optimism about the reelection of British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher 's Conservative Party government .
Mrs. Thatcher 's political future is considered enhanced by the fiscal 1988 budget presented last week by her chancellor of the exchequer , Nigel Lawson , which included tax cuts and reduced need for government borrowing .
But politics also figure in the less optimistic outlook for sterling .
Last week Mr. Lawson said he was `` content '' with the pound 's exchange-rate level but reiterated his opposition to a significant strengthening of the currency .
A weak currency helps Britain 's exporters by making their goods less expensive in world markets .
So a threat of possible Bank of England intervention against the pound hangs over the market .
`` Mr .
Lawson 's statement after the budget made it very clear ; he does n't want to see it much higher than this , '' Mr. Dennis says .
Britain 's widely expected entry into the European Monetary System poses a longer-term threat to the pound , traders say .
A devaluation of sterling , possibly to 2.80 marks , would precede Britain 's admission to the joint float of eight currencies , many traders believe .
The Conservative government is believed to favor entry if it survives the next election , which may be called as soon as this summer .
Entry and sterling 's devaluation are `` a safe bet , '' says Ronald H. Holzer , vice president and chief dealer at Harris Trust & Savings Bank in Chicago .
Still , Britain 's political stability , relatively robust economy and , above all , its still-high interest rates will continue to attract investors to the pound , other traders say .
Yields on three-month sterling Eurodeposits stood at 9 5/8 % Friday , in sharp contrast to 6 3/8 % and 3 7/8 % for similar dollar and mark deposits , respectively .
`` We 're still looking for sterling at $ 1.65 , '' says Anthony J. Murphy , a Royal Bank of Canada trader in New York .
But following the pound 's appreciation of more than 3.5 % against major currencies this month , `` The level right now makes the attraction a lot less , '' Mr. Holzer says .
`` It 's topping . ''
In late New York trading Friday , the pound stood at $ 1.6042 , up from $ 1.6003 Thursday , but eased to 2.9333 marks , from 2.9338 .
In other dealings , the dollar edged lower in sparse trading , slipping to 1.8285 marks , from 1.8333 , and to 151.35 Japanese yen , from 151.48 .
On the Commodity Exchange in New York Friday , gold for March delivery rose 30 cents an ounce to $ 405.60 in moderate trading estimated at 2.2 million ounces .
Gold was quoted at $ 406 an ounce in early trading Monday in Hong Kong .
House Ways and Means Chairman Dan Rostenkowski is leaning toward proposing a boost in the federal gasoline tax , and against a stock-transaction tax , as part of an effort to narrow the federal deficit .
The Illinois Democrat is focusing on the levy in his search for a major revenue raiser to reach a goal set by House Speaker Jim Wright -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- of finding $ 18 billion in new revenue .
Every one-cent rise in the gasoline tax would raise $ 900 million to $ 1 billion a year .
At the same time , Rep. Rostenkowski said he has rejected for now the speaker 's proposal to tax stock transactions .
In a speech over the weekend , he said there are `` a bunch of questions '' about such a tax , adding that he does n't expect answers `` by the time the Ways and Means Committee has to act to raise revenues . ''
Rep. Rostenkowski 's willingness to make choices about what his tax-writing committee will accept adds to the possibility that the House will enact a tax increase of some kind for the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1 .
Speaker Wright has said that while he will push to build a consensus among House Democrats to raise taxes about $ 18 billion a year , he will leave the specifics about how that will be accomplished to Rep. Rostenkowski and the Ways and Means Committee .
The tax boost would be part of a $ 36 billion deficit-reduction package the House Democratic leadership seeks for the coming fiscal year .
An additional $ 18 billion would come from spending cuts .
President Reagan has vowed to veto any tax increase Congress sends to him .
But Rep. Wright said yesterday on CBS 's `` Face the Nation '' that the president in fact proposed taxes in his budget , but he labeled them `` user fees . ''
Rep. Wright acknowledged that Democrats are sensitive to criticism that they are sure to face if taxes are raised .
`` Of course nobody likes to be accused of tax and spend , but it 's more honest than borrow and spend , '' Rep. Wright said .
The Ways and Means chairman has zeroed in on the gasoline tax almost by default .
He is committed not to change the tax rates passed in last year 's sweeping tax bill , despite Rep. Wright 's proposal to freeze the top individual tax rate at 38.5 % rather than allowing it to fall to 28 % next year , as scheduled .
And Rep. Rostenkowski will n't advocate any increases from Social Security or unemployment taxes .
While the Ways and Means chairman has suggested that revenue could be raised by increasing the excise tax on cigarettes , beer and distilled spirits , a boost in the `` sin taxes '' alone will n't raise the amount of revenue the Democratic leaders seek .
Rep. Rostenkowski also is attracted to the idea of raising the gasoline tax because such an action would n't be solely a revenue-driven exercise .
Raising the gas tax could be justified as a means of strengthening the domestic oil industry and reducing U.S. dependence on foreign oil .
But passage of a higher tax on gasoline will n't be easy because lawmakers from rural southwestern states are likely to fight such an effort .
And last week , the chief Senate tax writer , Senate Finance Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen -LRB- D , Texas -RRB- , said he was n't ready to endorse a gasolinetax boost .
In rejecting a stock-transfer tax , Rep. Rostenkowski told the Futures Industry Association in Boca Raton , Fla. , on Saturday , `` The fact that many people do n't like what 's happening in the financial markets does n't mean that they 're going to be hit with a new tax . ''
Rep. Rostenkowski raised several concerns about Rep. Wright 's recent proposal to impose a transfer tax of perhaps 0.5 % on both buyers and sellers of publicly traded stock .
He said that Congress should consider whether such a tax would `` destroy the liquidity of the markets by discouraging transactions where the profit per unit is so small that it would be totally eclipsed by the tax . ''
He added that another concern was whether such a tax `` would weaken our international competitiveness '' since `` financial instruments are an important part of international trade . ''
He also voiced worries that markets might move offshore to avoid the tax .
Before a transfer tax can be seriously considered , the Ways and Means chairman said , several issues must be resolved -- including whether people who take losses would be taxed the same as those with gains , what markets would be affected and whether options would be included .
`` Once new ideas like the transaction tax are raised , they often become the focus of discussions that go on for years before any action is taken , '' Rep. Rostenkowski concluded .
Referring to the idea of extending and expanding the tax credit for research and development , Rep. Rostenkowski said , `` The tax writers see no urgency there and are put off by the fact that it would cost billions . ''
Some lawmakers have been suggesting extending and enlarging the credit as part of a push to restore U.S. competitiveness .
Despite the search for additional revenue to meet budget-deficit targets , Rep. Rostenkowski said he `` strongly opposes '' a value-added tax .
A value-added tax is a kind of national sales tax imposed at each level of the chain of distribution .
The Ways and Means Committee does n't `` have the energy or appetite to endorse a radical new tax like a VAT , '' he added .
A currency scandal at Volkswagen has dented the company 's standing with many investors .
So why has the West German auto maker 's stock held up so well after an initial , brief decline ?
Europe is abuzz with speculation that a big German bank , probably Deutsche Bank , may be purchasing VW shares to support their price .
A VW spokesman says he 's heard the talk but has `` no indication that a friendly bank is helping out . ''
Deutsche Bank , which has close ties to VW , says it 's company policy not to comment on stock market rumors .
The resilience of VW stock strikes some people as unusual in light of all the unanswered questions about the currency affair .
Few details have emerged , leaving investors wondering whether there is more bad news to come .
VW stock initially dropped 7 % in Frankfurt after the company on March 10 announced that it lost as much as $ 259 million through falsified foreign exchange contracts .
The sum is equal to 80 % of VW 's net income for 1985 , a bumper year .
The company said it will make provisions from reserves to cover the loss .
The stock stabilized within 24 hours and since then has climbed about 3 % while the German stock market fell almost 5 % .
`` I 'm very surprised VW has n't fallen further , '' says Jens Erhardt , who publishes a German market newsletter .
The shares trade only on European exchanges , though orders can be placed through some U.S. brokers .
`` On fundamentals , I think the company is doing okay , '' says Stephen Reitman , an analyst at Phillips & Drew in London , `` but we 're telling people to temper any enthusiasm at the moment and wait until things are a bit clearer . ''
The stock does have a few fans .
`` It 's a clear buy , '' contends Gabriel Marcus , president of the New York securities unit of DG Bank of West Germany .
But he warns that VW might face lawsuits in connection with an issue of its stock last fall .
Many German stocks have started to look inexpensive as the Frankfurt market slid in recent weeks , reflecting a retreat by foreign investors worried about the German economy .
Even such favorites as Siemens and Daimler-Benz have been pummeled .
German banks and other institutions occasionally support stocks -- particularly new issues that run into difficulty -- without declaring publicly what they are doing .
While such undisclosed activity might be illegal in a U.S. market , securities lawyers say , it is legal in Germany .
VW 's main bank is Deutsche Bank , whose chairman , F. Wilhelm Christians , has a prominent position on the auto maker 's supervisory board .
The bank managed an issue of VW stock last September , offering nonvoting shares at about 6 % above their current trading level and at the same time issuing a strong buy recommendation .
In November VW denied a newsletter report that it had incurred a massive currency loss .
Mr. Erhardt says stockholders will n't be thrilled if it emerges that VW or Deutsche Bank could have found out about the currency fraud before the stock issue .
When the Bonn government eventually sells its 16 % stake in VW , a move originally planned for this year but delayed by the foreign exchange affair , Deutsche Bank is a leading candidate to manage the transaction .
If Deutsche Bank is supporting the VW stock price , `` maybe they 're pitching for business '' from the government , suggests one Frankfurt banker .
The currency mess has aggravated stock buyers ' worries about VW 's prospects in export markets .
In 11 months , VW shares have been halved to $ 181 from a high of $ 375 .
`` It 's going to take them a while to get back their credibility , '' says Rosemary Sagar of Drexel Burnham Lambert .
While VW is holding on to its position as market leader in Europe , largely because of its best-selling Golf model , the mark 's recent rise against the dollar and other currencies is cutting deeply into profit margins .
VW 's Audi subsidiary , in the past the strongest earner in the group , has estimated that its profit for 1986 was halved by the falling dollar and technical troubles with its Audi 5000 model in the U.S. .
A recent joint venture between VW and Ford Motor in South America has n't yet had an impact on the German company 's troubled Brazilian subsidiary , a big drain on profit in recent years .
The unit has said that its net loss tripled last year to $ 145.5 million .
And in Germany , VW 's stronghold , the company faces growing Japanese competition in a market that analysts say could shrink slightly this year after its recent strong growth .
Even after the foreign exchange debacle , VW 's policy is not to hedge against currency fluctuations .
The company claims it does n't need to cover itself since the fluctuations balance each other out in the medium term .
That stance is `` just poor management , '' says Dagmar Bottenbruch , a First Boston analyst in New York .
Third quarter , Sept. 30 , 1986 * :
Pre-tax earnings : $ 289.8 million vs. $ 422.2 million
* Translated into dollars at current exchange rates .
Net income for the quarter and per-share earnings are n't available .
Federal regulators have been quietly trying for several months to find a buyer for Financial Corp. of America , parent of the nation 's largest thrift institution , but the prospects are n't good for a sale any time in the immediate future , thrift industry sources said .
Several industry sources said that Edwin J. Gray , chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board , would like to find a buyer for the American Savings & Loan Association unit of Irvine , Calif.-based Financial Corp. before he leaves office at the end of June .
National Thrift News , an industry publication , quoted unidentified sources in Washington as saying that the sale of Financial Corp. was a `` top priority '' for federal regulators .
A bank board spokesman declined to comment .
`` Ed would like to resolve the situation one way or another before he leaves office , but I 'm not sure there 's enough time to do that , '' said one top California thrift executive .
The word of Mr. Gray 's intentions comes at a time when criticism of Financial Corp. and its chairman , William Popejoy , has been growing in California thrift circles .
Mr. Popejoy , who could n't be reached for immediate comment , was brought into Financial Corp. in August 1984 after regulators forced out then-chairman Charles Knapp during a run on deposits and effectively assumed a supervisory role over the thrift .
After initially cutting the size of Financial Corp. , Mr. Popejoy has been pushing its growth again with the permission of federal regulators .
American Savings has generally been paying somewhat more for deposits and charging less for mortgages than its major healthy main competitors .
It also has kept making more fixed-rate mortgage loans than the industry average , gambling that interest rates will n't rise precipitously over the next several years .
Mr. Popejoy has insisted that he is n't taking many risks because his loans have been hedged to some degree against possible interest rate increases .
Mr. Gray has said previously that any attempt by regulators to actually take over Financial Corp. three years ago would have led to the bankruptcy of the Federal Savings & Loan Insurance Corp. , which could n't afford a multi-billion dollar bailout .
However , he has been pushing Congress for an infusion of as much as $ 25 billion of capital into the insurance fund despite industry insistence that a much smaller amount is needed .
`` I think Gray is trying to win over the large thrifts , who oppose his FSLIC recapitalization plan , by implying that he would take a problem Financial Corp. off their hands if he had FSLIC money to aid in a takeover , '' one California thrift executive said .
However , a thrift attorney , who said he has been hearing rumors about a government-aided attempt to have Financial Corp. taken over , estimated that such a move would require a buyer to add about $ 600 million to Financial Corp. 's net worth to get it to meet minimum regulatory requirements .
The attorney also said he believed a takeover could eventually cost FSLIC as much as $ 7 billion .
The Home Loan Bank Board has said the fund had reserves of $ 1.9 billion on Dec. 31 , but a preliminary General Accounting Office audit claimed FSLIC ended the year technically bankrupt .
In the past , Mr. Popejoy has said he would welcome discussions about a possible acquisition of Financial Corp. or some sort of outside capital infusion .
In recent weeks , as sniping by other thrift industry executives has increased , Mr. Popejoy has been attempting to explain his rationale for increasing the size of Financial Corp. and his strategy for hedging possible risks .
Two weeks ago he sought and received a legal opinion that he could spell out that strategy at a meeting of industry executives without causing antitrust problems , industry sources said .
Mr. Popejoy spoke before some of his top competitors after a meeting of the legislative and regulatory committee of the California League of Savings Institutions .
Under the ground rules , those in the audience could n't ask questions or comment on Mr. Popejoy 's talk , and the chairman of at least one major thrift left prior to the speech .
Wesley E. Cantrell , a senior vice president of Harris Corp. , was named president and chief executive officer of Harris/3M Document Products Inc. , a joint venture between Harris and Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co. .
Mr. Cantrell , 52 years old , currently heads Harris 's Lanier Business Products sector .
He will succeed Gene W. Milner , 62 , who is retiring from Harris/3M but who will remain a director of Harris Corp. No successor has been named for Mr. Cantrell .
Harris/3M , based in Atlanta , makes copiers and facsimile machines .
Harris Corp. is an information , communications and micro-electronics concern .
St. Paul , Minn.-based Minnesota Mining makes tapes , abrasives , adhesives and medical products .
Economists frequently joke that they can predict anything but the future .
Lately , though , they are having just as much trouble with the present .
Although this year 's first quarter ends a week from tomorrow , there is widespread disagreement over just how strong or weak it has been .
There is even more disagreement over the second-quarter outlook and what the implications are for interest rates , the stock market and the currency markets .
According to the average estimate of a dozen analysts surveyed by The Wall Street Journal , the economy is growing at a moderate 3 % annual rate this quarter , after adjusting for inflation , and will expand at a 2.8 % pace during the next three months .
That would be an improvement from the anemic 1.1 % pace in last year 's fourth quarter .
But much of the current quarter 's strength came from inventory rebuilding , the analysts say , and the economy 's overall tone remains sluggish at best .
If so , that could disappoint investors who are counting on surging corporate profits to fuel additional gains in the stock market .
Despite the stronger overall growth expected in this year 's first half , many analysts say consumer spending is likely to be unenergetic .
Moreover , the dollar 's drop in the foreign-exchange markets and a surge in oil prices have made many bond market investors more leery of the inflation outlook .
Although the dollar has stabilized recently , many money managers remain bearish on the U.S. currency , partly because of skepticism about whether the recent monetary pact between the U.S. and five of its leading trading partners will work for long .
Also , most analysts in the Journal 's survey predict it will take a long time to make any meaningful progress in whittling the huge U.S. trade deficit .
The Commerce Department 's initial estimate of first-quarter growth will n't be released until April 23 .
The department used to release an initial , or `` flash , '' estimate of quarterly growth in the final month of each quarter but abandoned that last year because it believed the figures often were misleading .
One of the few things many analysts agree on is that interpreting economic reports lately has been especially difficult because of the tax law that became effective Jan. 1 .
But few analysts agree on how much effect the law has had .
Only three months ago , the conventional wisdom was that the economy would be so weak early this year , partly because of the new tax law , that the Federal Reserve System would feel obliged to cut interest rates in an effort to avert a recession .
Now , analysts say , the prospect of higher inflation and somewhat stronger economic growth could mean that the Fed 's next move will be to tighten credit conditions to remind investors of its determination to keep inflation in check .
Yet individual estimates vary enormously .
At one extreme , David Levine of Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. insists that a `` boom '' already is under way and that business activity will accelerate during the rest of the year , leading to much higher interest rates .
He contends that the economy will accelerate so rapidly that the Federal Reserve will tighten credit conditions by mid-May , and that interest rates will surge about three percentage points by year 's end .
But A. Gary Shilling , an economic consultant , argues that the economy hardly is growing at all this quarter .
John D. Paulus of Morgan Stanley & Co. forecasts even slower growth next quarter , with interest rates dropping a full percentage point during the next three to six months .
Mr. Paulus and several other analysts also expect weak growth in many other leading industrial nations , a development they say will increase pressure for lower world-wide borrowing costs .
Confronted by such diverse views and by a morass of contradictory government economic reports , many investment managers say they are waiting to make any major strategy changes until clearer signals of the economy 's health emerge .
Meanwhile , bond prices have hardly budged in the past few months , reminding traders of the monotonous 1960s and early 1970s .
If there is a majority view right now , it seems to be that the economy and interest rates will be trendless for at least another month or two .
`` Rates probably will stay as is , with a greater chance they could move down a little than move up , '' says Robert Chandross , chief economist of Lloyds Bank in New York .
Mr. Chandross and many other analysts were n't too impressed by the recent monetary accord between the U.S. , Canada , Japan , Britain , West Germany and France .
That was `` one of the great nonmeetings of all time , '' Mr. Chandross says .
`` There was nothing earth-shattering in there , no hard , concrete agreements . ''
Inflation appears likely to accelerate this year , according to most analysts in the Journal 's survey .
According to the average estimate among the dozen economists , prices -- as measured by a gauge based on the gross national product known as the deflator -- rose at a 3.2 % annual rate in the first quarter and will increase at a 3.3 % rate in the second quarter .
In 1986 's final quarter , the deflator rose only 0.7 % .
Mr. Levine continues to be optimistic about the economic outlook , even though he has been predicting a big boom and higher interest rates for more than a year now .
At a recent conference , Mr. Levine acknowledged that his forecast was way off target , quipping that `` it 's been a little like leaving the landing lights on for Amelia Earhart . ''
Now , though , he says , `` I think the wait finally is over .
It 's unnerving that nobody else thinks so , but I think the evidence finally is pointing in that direction . ''
Most interest prices wound up little changed once again in light trading volume .
The federal funds rate , the rate on reserves that banks lend each other overnight , averaged about 6.10 % , according to Fulton Prebon -LRB- U.S.A. -RRB- .
Inc. .
That compared with Thursday 's average of 6.06 % .
The rate on the Treasury 's latest three-month bills inched higher to 5.51 % bid from 5.50 % Thursday .
The rate on the Treasury 's latest six-month bills climbed to 5.55 % bid from 5.51 % .
In the bond market , the Treasury 's 7 1/2 % bonds due 2016 fell slightly to 99 24/ 32 from 99 27/32 Thursday , while the yield edged up to 7.52 % from 7.51 % .
The government 's 7 1/4 % notes due 1996 finished unchanged at 100 9/32 to yield 7.21 % .
Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. 's index of long-term Treasury bonds fell 2.91 points to close at 1424.73 , a decline of about three points from the previous Friday .
It hovered last Friday between 1424.33 and 1429.50 .
Trans World Airlines said it agreed to halt temporarily the purchase of USAir Group Inc. shares .
In a stipulation entered in federal court in Pittsburgh , TWA is barred from acquiring any more USAir stock prior to April 23 , and must give Washington-based USAir at least 14 days notice of future stock purchases .
TWA also agreed that it would not `` knowingly or willfully interfere in any way '' with the proposed merger between USAir and Winston-Salem , N.C.-based Piedmont Aviation Inc. .
The stipulation supersedes a temporary restraining order in effect that banned TWA from buying USAir shares until today .
The action follows TWA 's Securities and Exchange Commission filing last Monday in which it stated that it did n't intend to seek control of USAir or to acquire additional USAir shares `` at this time . ''
TWA , which currently holds a 14.8 % stake in USAir and proposed recently to buy the carrier 's remaining shares for $ 52 each , also sought in the filing `` the flexibility '' to increase its holdings to as much as 25 % of USAir 's stock .
The court said that TWA is free `` to make any filings '' with respect to its pending lawsuit in a Delaware court seeking to overturn USAir 's anti-takeover measures .
Frank E. Baxter comes from a tiny California town that bears his family 's name .
Now he faces the challenge of running a big-time brokerage firm that carries the name and mark of another man .
Last week , the 50-year-old president of Jefferies Group Inc. was given the post of chief executive officer after the stunning resignation of the firm 's founder , chairman and chief executive , Boyd Jefferies .
In the latest chapter of the insider-trading scandal , Mr. Jefferies , 56 , agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating securities laws .
No one else in the firm was implicated .
The new chief executive is in some respects a sharp contrast to the charismatic and driven Mr. Jefferies , who , according to one Wall Street source , `` would chase stock trades all night . ''
Mr. Baxter says he does n't plan to do any trading as chief executive .
He says that is partly to ensure that every trader will have one higher official reviewing his or her work -- a check that was missing in the case of Mr. Jefferies .
Plus , he says he does n't aspire to the same kind of prominence that Mr. Jefferies had in the securities business .
`` I am a more collegial person .
I need to share authority , '' says Mr. Baxter , a trim six-footer , who joined Jefferies in 1974 .
`` I 've never thought of Frank as being an aggressive personality .
He is a nice guy , who you enjoy being with , '' says Donald Weedon , chief executive officer of Weedon & Co. , a New York brokerage firm .
Mr. Baxter went into the securities business thanks partly to the military .
He says that while growing up in northern California he dreamed of becoming a lawyer .
`` As a kid , I sat around law offices and read law books , '' he says . -LRB- His family moved when he was very young from Baxter , which Mr. Baxter 's great grandfather established as a stagecoach stop during the Gold Rush and which apparently has n't grown much since . -RRB-
But as a teenager , he enlisted in the Air Force .
`` On guard duty one day , I saw another soldier reading The Wall Street Journal and asked if I could see it , '' recalls Mr. Baxter .
It turned out the other young man -- who remains a friend -- was already playing in the stock market and got Mr. Baxter interested .
`` He even helped me get a summer job at a brokerage firm , '' Mr. Baxter says .
Mr. Baxter did n't like retail brokerage work .
`` I did n't like trying to sell people .
There was a little too much promotion involved , '' he says .
After graduating in 1961 from the University of California , Berkeley , with a Bachelor 's degree in economics , Mr. Baxter soon went to work for a San Francisco brokerage firm that was involved in the `` third market , '' where listed stocks are traded off the exchange , usually in transactions between institutions .
Interest in that market eventually brought him to Jefferies .
Mr. Jefferies is viewed as a pioneer in building the third market .
Jefferies accounts for about 60 % of third-market trading .
This market has been growing in recent years thanks partly to the wave of corporate takeovers , where the third market 's ability to execute fast , discreet trades of big blocks of stock is particularly useful .
Though Mr. Baxter , like other officials of the firm , lived in the shadow of the founder , he did have successes of his own , observers say .
In 1985 , he opened an office for Jefferies in London .
`` It opened Feb. 10 and by April it was in the black .
I thought that was fantastic , '' says Benjamin L. Lubin , a securities consultant and an outside director for Jefferies .
Mr. Baxter also deserves much of the credit for holding down the firm 's costs during a period of rapid growth in recent years , says Perrin Long , a securities industry analyst with Lipper Analytical Securities Corp. in New York .
`` Though Boyd generated a great deal of business , you make your profits by controlling costs , '' says Mr. Long .
Mr. Baxter says he plans to rely heavily on the 445 employees that make up the Jefferies `` team '' -- a concept that seems to pervade the firm .
The firm 's colors -- maroon and gold -- and its symbol -- a lion -- adorn coffee mugs and the firm 's banner , as well as warm-up jackets , which are hung over the backs of many traders ' chairs .
The firm also has its own song , which begins `` Jefferies Group , the elite team . . . .
'' Mr. Baxter says it 's sometimes played in the trading room when a particularly good deal is done .
Mr. Baxter says he is banking on team spirit to help keep traders from leaving now that Mr. Jefferies , whom he describes as the firm 's `` spiritual leader '' is gone .
`` Even if they are n't loyal to me , I think they will be loyal to each other , '' he says .
Morale is high , he said .
After Mr. Jefferies made the announcement of his resignation , there was `` stunned silence and some tears . ''
But then , Mr. Baxter adds , `` the team just rose to the occasion .
I 've never seen morale higher . ''
Nevertheless , he has taken some quick steps to reassure people and assert his new position .
He held a meeting in Dallas over the weekend to review what he termed `` my philosophy and our business plan . ''
He says he planned to invite 30 employees of the firm , but got such a response that about 70 went , many paying their own airfare .
As president , Mr. Baxter says , he was deeply involved in forming the firm 's business strategy , and does n't see any need to change it .
`` Institutional brokerage is going to remain the engine that drives the firm , '' he says .
But the firm will continue diversifying .
Recently it has moved into such areas as trading convertible debentures and stocks of foreign companies .
It is still looking to open an office in Asia , probably Tokyo , by the end of the year .
Nor does he believe Mr. Jefferies 's transgressions will do lasting damage to the firm .
`` Both incidents involved trading positions that were all done by Boyd , '' he says .
Mr. Jefferies was charged with manipulating the price of a stock and with helping arbitrager Ivan Boesky hide his ownership of certain stocks by having Jefferies temporarily take ownership .
But it may be some time before Jefferies stops hearing the kind of joke one Wall Street wag offered Friday : `` Jefferies 's motto is : Why buy a stock when you can rent it . ''
ICN Pharmaceuticals Inc. 's chairman and chief executive officer , Milan Panic , told shareholders at the annual meeting that he would ask the board to approve the purchase of as many as three million of the company 's approximately 20.9 million common shares outstanding .
A spokesman declined to say whether the board approved a buyback at its meeting Friday , and Mr. Panic could n't be reached for comment .
Mr. Panic said at the annual meeting that the company had about $ 500 million in cash , and total resources of about $ 2 billion , to pursue its previously announced strategy of acquiring a major drug company .
He said he believed the acquisition could be accomplished through a friendly bid for some company during the next 24 months .
As previously reported , ICN last January asked the Food and Drug Administration to allow expanded use of its drug ribavirin by some patients who have been exposed to acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
Mr. Panic declined to discuss the pending application or ribavirin 's possible effectiveness in treating AIDS .
ICN shares closed Friday at $ 19.75 , up 25 cents , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
Three years ago , pundits touted Micron Technology Inc. as the kind of small American company that can beat the Japanese at their own game : low-cost production of high-tech products .
Later , when Micron began to run up big losses because of Japanese price competition in semiconductor sales , it became one of U.S. industry 's most strident critics of Japanese trade practices .
Now , however , executives at several Japanese chip companies say that Micron has been secretly exploring the possibility of being acquired by a Japanese company .
The executives say representatives of Micron , a Boise , Idaho-based chip manufacturer , held talks last year with at least three Japanese companies , Fujitsu Ltd. , Hitachi Ltd. and Oki Electric Industry Co. , on the subject of a possible purchase of Micron by one of the Japanese concerns .
These companies declined to comment on the talks .
Joseph Parkinson , Micron 's chairman , denied that he had ever spoken to a Japanese company about a possible takeover , and called reports that Micron has sought a Japanese suitor `` utter baloney . ''
`` You can check my passport , '' he said , when asked to comment on a report that he flew to Tokyo last summer for talks with a possible acquirer .
However , Mr. Parkinson declined to comment on whether overtures may have been made on Micron 's behalf by the company 's investment bankers .
According to the Japanese industry sources , Micron representatives held talks with Fujitsu , Hitachi and Oki in Tokyo last summer .
The discussions were said to have covered a number of issues , including possible technology-licensing agreements and a potential sale of Micron 's assets .
The executives said Hitachi dismissed Micron 's overtures immediately , and Fujitsu likewise did n't pursue Micron overtures .
Oki , meanwhile , the object of Micron 's latest anti-Japanese attack just last week , sent a vice president to Boise within the past six months to meet with Micron 's president , Juan Benitez .
Mr. Parkinson acknowledges that the Oki executive visited Micron , but denies that the subject of a Micron buyout was seriously discussed .
`` The subject did n't come up , '' he said .
Micron , started eight years ago with Idaho potato money on a plot of sand and sagebrush in Boise , has blamed most of its losses over the past two years on Japanese dumping -- selling goods below their production cost .
The Japanese agreed in a trade accord signed last summer to open their markets and refrain from chip dumping , but Micron and other chip makers accuse the Japanese of violating the accord , and Micron 's losses have only widened .
In the company 's fiscal second quarter , ended March 5 , Micron posted a loss of $ 10.9 million , compared with a $ 9.8 million loss in the year-earlier period .
Revenue for the quarter totaled $ 20.1 million , up from $ 9.4 million a year earlier .
Because of Micron 's recent overtures , individuals close to Oki say Oki executives were particularly shocked when Micron last week produced an Oki invoice from a recent chip sale in Hong Kong as evidence of its dumping claims .
Micron used the occasion to call on the U.S. government to retaliate against Japanese producers `` before it 's too late . ''
`` The Japanese response to our administration 's good-faith efforts to solve this illegal dumping has been noncompliance and a publicity blitz of denials and statements to confuse and weaken our resolve , '' Mr. Parkinson said .
Micron 's steady losses have caused some industry analysts to conclude that the company is n't a long-term survivor , although its officials say it will rebound when it starts production of a new one-megabyte memory chip .
Its current problems stand in stark contrast to its initial success as a promising high-tech startup .
That success led author George Gilder , in his 1984 book , The Spirit of Enterprise , to rhapsodize that Micron `` shows once again that the crucial capital of industry is not money or machinery , but mind and spirit , and that America -- in these crucial domains of enterprise -- remains No. 1 . ''
Brenton R. Schlender contributed to this article .
As Taiwan 's foreign-currency reserves soar , the country is increasingly being viewed as an alternative to Asian borrowers ' dependence on Japanese banks , according to bankers .
But most of Tawain 's major banks late last week passed up an opportunity to play a major role in the international loan market .
Chase Manhattan Bank failed to syndicate a loan here for Pertamina , Indonesia 's state-owned oil company , as six out of at least eight major Taiwan banks rejected the loan .
Pertamina is seeking about $ 470 million to finance the construction of a liquefied-natural-gas plant , and Chase had hoped to raise at least $ 240 million of that in Taiwan .
`` The idea was too new , and there was too little time for them to digest '' the loan proposal , said William Liley , managing director of Chase Manhattan Asia Ltd. 's project-financing division in Hong Kong .
Bankers were given only a month to review the loan proposal .
The major stumbling blocks were inexperience and conservatism .
Bankers who declined to support the loan said they have little expertise in project financing and much less in assessing energy markets or Indonesia 's credit-worthiness .
The bankers ' conservatism , meanwhile , is based partly on the fact that all major Taiwan banks are either owned or controlled by the government .
`` It 's difficult for us to try something new , because we 're likely to be penalized for losing the public money but unlikely to be rewarded if we make money for the bank , '' said one banker .
Despite their rejection of this loan , the banks remain open to future opportunities .
`` Given another deal , another country , we might consider it. . . .
We are n't closing our door entirely , '' said one banker .
Representatives of member countries of the Inter-American Development Bank decided to postpone until June a decision on major changes in voting power at the 44-nation agency .
The U.S. , over the opposition of Latin American countries and with little support from other industrial nations , has been demanding a change in IADB lending policies that would give Washington a larger say in the approval or rejection of loans .
A special committee representing 12 countries agreed at a closed-door session Saturday that the IADB should have $ 1.92 billion for loans to the poorest Latin countries during the four-year period ending in 1990 .
These resources for the IADB 's Fund for Special Operations are provided as grants by the U.S. and other donor countries .
The agreement on increasing IADB lending to the poorest countries in the region , which include Bolivia , Ecuador Paraguay , the Dominican Republic and several Central American nations , apparently would permit the international agency to double the amount of its lending to these countries .
The IADB 's 28th annual conference formally opens today .
U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker will be among the speakers .
The property-casualty insurance industry had record 1986 net income of $ 12.7 billion , according to final figures prepared by the Insurance Information Institute .
The preliminary estimate had been $ 11.5 billion .
Net included $ 6.5 billion of realized capital gains and $ 600 million of federal income-tax credits .
Net for 1985 was $ 1.9 billion , which included a $ 5.6 billion operating loss .
The industry had 1986 operating profit of $ 5.6 billion , the institute said .
The preliminary estimate had been $ 4.5 billion .
Operating profit primarily consisted of a pre-tax underwriting loss of $ 15.8 billion and pre-tax net investment income of $ 21.8 billion .
Daniel J. McNamara , president of Insurance Services Office Inc. , an insurance data-gathering organization , said despite the industry 's dramatic gains , several factors `` may threaten the continuity of the recovery . ''
Among them , he cited a heavy dependence on capital gains resulting from the 1986 bull market , an unusually small number of natural catastrophes during the year , and the erratic nature of the recovery .
Fifteen property-casualty companies became insolvent during the year , he said , bringing the three-year failure total to a record 56 companies .
A SOVIET OFFICIAL SAID the U.S. is attempting to scuttle an arms pact .
Kremlin arms-control official Viktor Karpov said U.S. demands over short-range nuclear missiles and concern over Moscow 's conventional forces may be aimed at blocking a U.S.-Soviet agreement on the elimination of medium-range weapons from Europe .
Karpov said a U.S. proposal made at the Geneva arms talks included a plan to convert U.S. midrange weapons into shorter-range arms rather than destroy them .
White House Chief of Staff Baker said in an ABC-TV interview that `` it would be likely '' that Gorbachev and Reagan will hold another summit .
AQUINO ORDERED the Philippine military to crush the opposition .
Speaking from a bomb-damaged grandstand at the Philippines Military Academy , Aquino said her peace policy had failed and she directed the armed forces to `` end all threats to freedom '' by the country 's communist rebels and rightist plotters .
At least 350 people have been killed since a 60-day truce with the communist insurgents ended Feb. 8 , including four people in last week 's bomb explosion at the academy .
The Philippine president , in her commencement address at the academy , complained that the U.S. was giving advice instead of the aid it pledged .
CONCERN MOUNTED over the cost of a prescription drug for AIDS .
The FDA gave approval Friday to Burroughs-Wellcome Co. to market the drug , AZT , for the treatment of AIDS and its related pneumonia .
The drug 's price -- $ 8,300 a year wholesale and $ 10,000 retail -- has alarmed physicians and consumer advocates , and unanswered questions about insurance and other coverage have prompted some to say the drug is beyond the reach of many AIDS patients .
In a six-month controlled trial last year , azidothymidine prolonged survival for AIDS patients .
The drug 's major side effects include severe anemia .
Howard Baker said that he did n't expect any `` new , devastating development '' in the Iran-Contra affair , and that he was convinced Reagan `` is telling the truth '' about his knowledge of the initiative .
Meanwhile , Contra leader Alfonso Robelo said North arranged for two Nicaraguan exile groups to receive about $ 100,000 in private funds .
A Pentagon official denied that a planned military exercise in Central America in May was timed to coincide with what U.S. officials have called a spring offensive by anti-government rebels in Nicaragua .
The maneuvers would involve sending thousands of U.S. troops to Honduras and other places in the region , military officials said .
Weinberger warned Tehran that despite Iran 's installation of new missile batteries along the Persian Gulf , the U.S. was prepared to use force to keep the waterway open .
The defense secretary , in an NBC-TV interview , said the Pentagon was assessing whether more ships should be sent to join a Navy battle group in the region .
Iraqi President Hussein said Baghdad had foiled Iran 's pledge of a decisive victory in the Persian Gulf war , but that Iraqi casualty figures during the past year were high .
He said a peace treaty is the only way to end the six-year-old conflict .
Italian authorities expressed concern about a new wave of internationally coordinated guerrilla attacks following Friday 's murder of an air force general in Rome .
The Interior Ministry said police had uncovered Italian links to terrorist groups in France and West Germany , and that the assassination may have been ordered from abroad .
Former President Carter met twice with Syrian President Assad , a day after he urged officials in Damascus to use their influence to help free eight Americans held hostage in Lebanon .
Carter , on a five-nation tour of North Africa and the Mideast , said the discussions with Assad were `` broad-ranging , '' but he refused to elaborate .
Anglican Archbishop Tutu said he had urged black anti-apartheid leaders to halt their armed struggle against South Africa .
Tutu , who spent the weekend in Zambia for talks with Oliver Tambo and other leaders of the African National Congress , held out little hope of a cease-fire .
Pretoria has refused to hold talks with the ANC .
Congress cleared a five-year , $ 88 billion highway bill and sent it to the White House , where Reagan has vowed to veto it as too costly .
The Senate voted Friday to allow states to raise the speed limit to 65 mph from 55 mph on most rural interstate highways .
NASA officials are expected to approve a launch-pad test firing of the space shuttle Discovery 's main engines before it is cleared for blastoff next February , space agency sources said .
The test would delay the shuttle flight by at least a month .
Yugoslavia 's prime minister said the Belgrade government would use `` all means '' available , including the army , to defend the country 's political system .
The comments by Branko Mikulic were his first regarding a recent wave of labor strikes and rising political dissent within the country .
Chad 's government said its troops captured Libya 's air base of Ouadi Doum in northern Chad .
Western intelligence sources said the air base was Libya 's most important military installation in Chad .
Died : Robert Preston , 68 , actor , Saturday , in Santa Barbara , Calif. , of cancer .
Electronic Mail Corp. of America said that it received $ 200,000 in a short-term loan and that its president resigned .
The financially troubled provider of electronic telecommunications services , which has been trying to obtain financing to maintain operations , said it had received $ 200,000 in short-term financing from a lending group that included investment units of PaineWebber Inc. and E.F. Hutton Group Inc. .
The company still needs additional financing and is discussing the possibility with a number of financial sources , a company spokesman added .
Electronic Mail also said its president , J.R. Moman , resigned and will be succeeded by Joshua N. Graham .
Mr. Graham , currently chairman and chief executive officer , will continue to hold those positions .
The company spokesman declined to comment on Mr. Moman 's resignation .
Mr. Moman could n't be reached for comment .
The Energy Department ordered its three weapons-production nuclear reactors in South Carolina to reduce to half power after the National Academy of Sciences warned that the plants were operating beyond their capacity to handle certain accidents .
Energy Secretary John Herrington on Friday told officials at the Savannah River reactors to lower the plants ' power level and asked the contractor , Du Pont Co. , to calculate what level of power is appropriate to meet the concerns of the academy .
The academy recently told the Energy Department that it could n't `` conclude with confidence '' that significant core damage would be avoided if there was a severe loss-of-coolant accident .
That type of accident is considered dangerous because it can leave the reactor 's core without water needed to prevent steam from building up to explosive levels or fuel rods from melting .
The power cutbacks lower the Energy Department 's capacity to produce material for nuclear weapons .
The cutbacks could be temporary depending on results from additional tests that will be conducted , a department spokeswoman said .
American Motors Corp. said its board met here Friday but took no action on Chrysler Corp. 's bid to acquire the company .
AMC , based in Southfield , Mich. , said the board discussed the proposal and will continue its review .
It was the second board meeting since Chrysler made its proposal March 9 .
AMC said the board also voted to postpone the annual meeting scheduled April 29 .
A new date was n't set .
The auto maker said the next board meeting is scheduled April 29 , but that directors are expected to meet again before that date .
On March 9 , Highland Park , Mich.-based Chrysler said it agreed to acquire from Regie Nationale des Usines Renault its 46.1 % stake in AMC and proposed to buy the rest of AMC in a stock swap valued at $ 4 a share .
The total transaction is valued at as much as $ 1.11 billion .
Some investors have speculated that struggling AMC may try to pressure Chrysler to sweeten its offer .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , AMC shares closed at $ 4.50 , up 12.5 cents , and Chrysler shares closed at $ 54.125 , up 62.5 cents .
A Pentagon appeals board ruled that Lester Crown , a General Dynamics Corp. director , can retain his security clearance .
The matter had been under review because Mr. Crown had been named an unindicted co-conspirator in a 1972 bribery case in Illinois .
A recent change in Pentagon rules said being named an unindicted co-conspirator could be grounds for revocation of a person 's clearance , though such revocation is n't automatic .
Had the Pentagon revoked Mr. Crown 's clearance , the company would have been forced to remove him from the board to remain eligible to handle classified Defense Department contracts .
ARBITRAGER SALIM LEWIS allegedly asked Boyd Jefferies to manipulate the stock of Fireman 's Fund last year , sources said .
The government is trying to determine if anyone at American Express , Shearson Lehman or Salomon Brothers asked Lewis to set up the arrangement .
The inquiry represents a further widening of the securities industry scandal .
John Shad 's departure as SEC chairman is n't expected to bring any letup in enforcement or deregulation .
More names emerged as a possible successor to Shad , who is to become ambassador to the Netherlands .
Friday 's triple witching hour was a bit tamer than the previous quarter , and stock and futures prices climbed to records .
The Dow Jones industrials closed above 2300 for the first time , rising 33.95 points to 2333.52 .
Thrift regulators have been trying for months to find a buyer for Financial Corp. of America , sources said .
But they add that prospects are n't good that the parent of the nation 's largest thrift will be sold soon .
The U.S. is likely to decide this week to impose sanctions on Japanese microchip producers for violating a semiconductor trade accord .
Ivan Boesky was sued by a group of limited partners , who alleged the arbitrager misled them .
The suit also names a law firm , the first to become a defendant in the current scandal .
Ways and Means Chairman Rostenkowski is leaning toward a boost in the gasoline tax to help cut the deficit .
At the same time , he is against a proposed tax on stock transactions .
The New York Merc and Comex are laying the groundwork for a merger of the two futures exchanges , according to officials .
Dart Group stepped up efforts to acquire Supermarkets General .
The company requested access to data it said the food retailer is providing to other prospective bidders .
Brazil 's foreign banks may withdraw up to $ 3 billion in short-term credits soon , bankers said .
Meanwhile , the Philippines ' foreign banks agreed on an unusual debt plan .
Dixons Group 's takeover of Cyclops Corp. stalled .
The British company was pressured by the SEC to reopen its $ 384 million tender offer for the Pittsburgh-based concern .
C.O.M.B. agreed to buy the half of Cable Value Network it does n't already own for warrants convertible to common stock .
The value of the pact could n't be determined immediately .
Ecolab signed a definitive accord to buy ChemLawn for $ 370 million , apparently scuttling Waste Management 's hostile takeover bid .
AT&T 's cash flow exceeded expectations for the first two months of 1987 , Chairman James Olson said .
Texas Air is facing employee resistance as it moves to consoliate its diverse family of airlines .
Pan Am reported a $ 197.5 million loss for the fourth quarter , worse than it predicted .
The carrier also expects a loss for the first quarter .
Stocks : Volume 234,010,000 shares .
Dow Jones industrials 2333.52 , up 33.95 ; transportation 948.89 , up 3.03 ; utilities 220.12 , up 3.17 .
Bonds : Dow Jones 20 bonds 94.85 , off 0.09 .
Commodities : Dow Jones futures index 113.72 , up 0.29 ; spot index 113.39 , off 0.41 .
The University of California , Los Angeles , recognized a $ 15 million gift from a local executive by renaming UCLA 's business school the John E. Anderson Graduate School of Management .
The gift from Mr. Anderson , 69-year-old founder and owner of Topa Equities Ltd. , and from his wife , Marion , is the largest single private contribution in the history of the California university system , UCLA said .
The donation initiates a drive to raise $ 50 million of private and state funds for a new business school building on the Westwood campus , according to a UCLA spokeswoman .
Mr. Anderson graduated from UCLA in 1940 and , after earning a Harvard MBA degree and a law degree , became a founding partner of the Los Angeles law firm of Kindel and Anderson .
Topa Equities is a closely held holding company for financial services , beverage distribution and real estate operations , with annual sales of about $ 350 million .
The UCLA graduate management school currently has about 1,200 students in its masters and doctoral programs .
French Prime Minister Jacques Chirac and officials of Walt Disney Co. tomorrow will sign the final contract bringing a $ 2 billion amusement park to a Paris suburb by 1992 .
The signing will follow nearly two years of negotiations since Disney narrowed its choice for a European park to Spain and France .
The company signed an initial agreement on the park with then-French Premier Laurent Fabius in December 1985 , but negotiations were delayed after the change in French governments last March .
The French Communist Party had raised objections about proposed working conditions , the right-wing National Front Party objected to the potential hiring of immigrants to work there , and local groups opposed some of the details of the proposed 1,200-acre first phase .
Eventually , the park is expected to employ 30,000 people and be host to 10 million visitors a year .
French officials said a private company would be created , with 60 % owned by French interests and as much as 40 % by American interests , including Disney 's 17 % share .
Disney , a Burbank , Calif.-based entertainment concern , will supervise construction and control park management .
The government agreed to extend the Paris subway system to the park site , at Marne-la-Vallee , about 25 miles east of Paris .
The Paris park will be Disney 's second outside the U.S. .
The first , in Tokyo , opened four years ago .
Ecolab Inc. said it signed a definitive agreement to buy ChemLawn Corp. for about $ 370 million , or $ 36.50 a share , apparently scuttling Waste Management Corp. 's hostile takeover bid for ChemLawn .
Ecolab 's surprise bid came on the heels of Waste Management 's sweetened offer on Friday of $ 35 a share for ChemLawn .
ChemLawn , a Columbus , Ohio , lawn care concern , had been seeking a friendly suitor since it rejected Waste Management 's initial $ 27 a share offer in February .
A Waste Management spokesman yesterday said the Oak Brook , Ill.-based waste disposal concern would n't have any immediate comment on the announcement .
Waste Management said only 121 ChemLawn shares had been tendered to it by last Thursday .
The acquisition announcement was made after the markets closed Friday .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Ecolab shares closed at $ 30.875 , down 12.5 cents .
In national over-the-counter trading ChemLawn shares rose $ 1.875 to $ 36 .
In an interview , Pierson M. Grieve , chairman , president and chief executive officer of St. Paul , Minn.-based Ecolab , said his company approached ChemLawn with a friendly offer on Feb. 27 , the day after Waste Management made its initial bid .
Neither company disclosed Ecolab 's interest at the time and ChemLawn said it had instructed its financial advisor , Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. , to look for other purchasers .
Meanwhile , ChemLawn adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to fend off hostile bidders .
In a brief statement Friday , ChemLawn said it had dropped the shareholder rights plan .
Mr. Grieve said Ecolab decided to make a pre-emptive offer for ChemLawn before Waste Management raised its bid .
Ecolab 's offer is conditioned on the tender of at least 5.3 million ChemLawn shares and gives Ecolab an option to buy all ChemLawn 's authorized unissued shares for $ 36.50 each if there is another higher bid .
Mr. Grieve also said holders of 25 % of ChemLawn 's outstanding shares have agreed to tender them to Ecolab .
If the transaction is n't completed , under certain conditions , ChemLawn has agreed to pay Ecolab $ 20 million .
`` We feel we 've locked it up pretty tight , '' Mr. Grieve said .
Ecolab makes cleaning and sanitizing products for institutions and was formerly known as Economics Laboratory Inc. .
For its second quarter ended Dec. 31 , Ecolab had net income of $ 10.6 million , or 40 cents a share , on sales of $ 421.8 million .
Earnings included a $ 2 million gain from the sale of assets .
The company had net income for its fiscal year ended June 30 , 1986 , of $ 43.7 million , or $ 1.62 a share , on sales of $ 812.9 million .
Mr. Grieve said the ChemLawn acquisition should boost Ecolab 's earnings for the remainder of the fiscal year since Ecolab 's results will include ChemLawn 's seasonally strongest quarter .
That benefit is likely to be nearly offset in fiscal 1988 as ChemLawn 's full-year results are absorbed , he said .
Meanwhile , ChemLawn said its directors approved severance agreements for senior management , including Jack Van Fossen , chairman and chief executive officer , `` to encourage -LRB- managers -RRB- to stay with ChemLawn through the transition. `` The agreements provide for lump sum payments equal to 2.99 times a terminated manager 's average base pay for the preceding five years
Analysts expressed surprise at the size of the Ecolab bid and Mr. Grieve acknowledged the bid was `` a full price . ''
But he said Ecolab expects that its sales expertise will help improve ChemLawn 's future earnings .
`` This was n't an opportunistic move , '' he said .
`` It fulfills our longstanding strategic plan to move into the residential services market . ''
Abraham Sofaer , the State Department 's legal adviser and a former federal judge , is n't used to being on the receiving end of harsh verdicts .
But recently some senators called his work `` absurd , '' `` illogical '' and `` distorted . ''
Mr. Sofaer is the author of a controversial reinterpretation of the 1972 Antiballistic Missile Treaty that would permit wider testing of President Reagan 's `` Star Wars '' defense system .
Many arms control experts claim his reading is politically motivated and would gut the treaty by contradicting 15 years of established practice under the U.S.-Soviet pact .
The aggressive Mr. Sofaer , who has a strong influence on many foreign policy issues , may be upsetting the delicate balance between his dual roles as the secretary of state 's lawyer and the senior U.S. official charged with making sure that foreign policy conforms to international law .
Too often , he is perceived as being out in front of the parade , rather than keeping an eye on the procession .
`` I think he 's smart , but I also feel he 's applying his talents in directions that are not necessarily consistent with what the State Department should be doing , '' says Sen. Carl Levin , a member of the Armed Services Committee .
`` I do n't view the State Department 's position as undermining treaties , '' adds the Michigan Democrat .
Last week , Mr. Sofaer , 48 years old , angered even his supporters by trying to deflect some of the congressional criticism of his interpretation on the Antiballistic Missile Treaty by blaming a young staff lawyer for careless research .
The remark angered the White House , which fears Mr. Sofaer may have undercut his interpretation , and prompted some protesting staff members to don yellow stickers saying , `` I am not a young lawyer . ''
Arms control is only one of the issues in which the feisty , 5-foot-4-inch legal adviser is embroiled .
Justice Department officials claim that he was too soft on Israel when he headed a task force investigating Jonathan Pollard , a U.S. analyst convicted of spying for Israel .
And international lawyers complain that he is on shaky ground when he pushes his hard-line view that the U.S. has the legal right to kidnap suspected terrorists and use force against states that harbor them .
Some experts fear that the result may be that the U.S. , once in the forefront of developing international law , now is seen by some other nations as bending statutes to suit its national security goals .
They cite such incidents as last year 's naval maneuvers near the Gulf of Sidra as a thinly disguised attempt to use international law concerning freedom of navigation as an excuse to provoke Libya into attacking U.S. ships .
`` He has to be not only the advocate , but the legal conscience of the country , '' says Richard Bilder , professor of law at the University of Wisconsin and a former attorney in the legal adviser 's office .
`` Part of his job is reflecting the point of view that international law has its own integrity , and that the long-term interests of the country are best served by a policy of respect for international law .
There are some of us who believe he has not done as much as we 'd like to see in that area . ''
Mr. Sofaer declined to be interviewed for this article .
Delicate and diplomatic are two words that are n't usually associated with Mr. Sofaer .
`` He 's a very bright fellow , but he has no experience in international law and seems to leap at very radical conclusions based on what looks like superficial research , '' says Alfred Rubin , professor of international law at Tufts University 's Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy .
Unlike most of his cautious predecessors , who dispensed behind-the-scenes legal advice to the department 's bureaucracy , Abe Sofaer 's ingenuity and boundless energy have made him a high-profile foreign policy player and given him direct access to the secretary of state , George Shultz .
Late one evening in October 1985 , for instance , Mr. Sofaer was finishing his controversial reinterpretation of the U.S.-Soviet arms control agreement , which was due the next day , when he learned the U.S. had forced down an Egyptian aircraft carrying terrorists who had killed an American .
Immediately convening a legal task force to study extradition procedures , he worked through the night , shuttling between both projects and keeping himself and the staff awake by ordering endless rounds of pizza and singing operatic arias in his rich baritone voice .
He produced a novel theory of using piracy laws to go after terrorists .
He has some other novel ideas too .
Concerning the kidnapping of suspected terrorists , for instance , he once said , `` You might just find a fellow somewhere -- all tied up .
He might be sent to a country where we have an effective extradition treaty . ''
Would n't that be illegal kidnapping ? he was asked .
`` We 're talking about informal civilized arrangements with friends , '' he replied with a smile .
A senior administration official says Mr. Sofaer 's views in part are colored by his early months on the job , when he was closely questioned by conservatives because he had been appointed to the bench in New York by President Carter , following a distinguished career as a law professor at Columbia University .
He is a member of a slim minority within a minority -- a Jew raised in Bombay , India , by parents of Iraqi origin .
The senior official , who has had many dealings with Mr. Sofaer , says that in conversations , the former judge goes out of his way to support `` the aims of the administration , '' and to `` pepper his conversations with references of support for the president . ''
Nevertheless , there is broad agreement that Mr. Sofaer has brought a new prominence to the tiny legal adviser 's office .
For example , the bureau , known as `` L '' in the department 's bureaucratic parlance , was put in charge when Secretary Shultz set up a task force to provide information to the various agencies and committees investigating the Iran-Contra scandal .
`` It 's the first I can remember us heading anything up , '' says Michael Kozak , a 16-year veteran .
Four days after Mr. Sofaer was appointed to the office , in June 1985 , he plunged into his work when hijackers seized a Trans World Airlines jet in the Middle East and killed an American passenger .
He quickly saw a way to satisfy the terrorists ' demand that certain Shiite prisoners in Israel be released .
Several years earlier , the U.S. had stated that the prisoners were being held illegally and should be freed , so , Mr. Sofaer reasoned , all the administration had to do was restate its position .
He took the idea directly to Mr. Shultz , who agreed .
`` There is a sense of energy and competence in the bureau now , '' adds Elliott Abrams , Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs .
`` People very much want the legal adviser 's views and care what he thinks . ''
Justice Department officials , however , criticize Mr. Sofaer 's handling of the Pollard spy case .
After he led a joint State-Justice investigating team to Israel in December 1985 , he said Jerusalem had been fully cooperative , when , in fact , the Israelis had withheld information from the team .
William Webster , director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation -LRB- who recently was selected by President Reagan to take over as director of the Central Intelligence Agency -RRB- , said Israel had provided only `` selective cooperation . ''
Mr. Sofaer 's supporters say Justice officials are n't accustomed to the delicate diplomacy needed when dealing with sovereign states .
They assert that Mr. Sofaer 's method produced more , not less , cooperation from Israel .
Individual retirement account -LRB- IRA -RRB- dollars are helping stoke the continuing stock market rally , but they can also dilute returns for some mutual fund shareholders .
Heavy cash infusions in a soaring market can be a mixed blessing for the many equity fund managers obliged to stay fully invested in stocks .
The new cash-in-hand just has n't had enough time to earn as much as the `` old '' part of the portfolio , weakening the overall return .
`` It 's an arithmetic question and an arithmetic answer .
The smaller the fund the more potential for underperformance , '' says William W. Hewitt , an executive vice president at Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. , a unit of American Express Co. New funds -- latecomers in a rising market -- are particularly susceptible .
Just how much IRA money is flowing into the stock market through funds these days is hard to pin down , since hard data lags by several months .
`` January was a huge sales month with some modest shift to equity sales , '' says Al Johnson , chief economist for the Investment Company Institute , an industry trade group .
Overall new sales of equity mutual funds -LRB- excluding dividend reinvestment -RRB- jumped to $ 6.51 billion in January from $ 4.97 billion in December , according to the ICI .
`` Some of the folks in the trade say the equity funds are getting big play in terms of IRA flows , '' says Mr. Johnson .
Nonetheless , the figures through January -LRB- a big IRA month -RRB- show that bond and income funds account for $ 3 out of every $ 4 of sales .
A more recent informal survey of several mutual fund complexes corroborates that ratio , although equity fund sales are growing .
It also underscores a huge overall increase in dollars being put into many types of funds , both in IRA and other accounts .
For example , Fidelity Investments says cash levels for its 10 growth funds have hovered at around 5 % since yearend .
Meanwhile assets in those funds have risen to about $ 15.59 billion from $ 11.22 billion .
Assets at Fidelity Magellan alone have risen $ 2.55 billion since yearend .
Of course , part of the gains are due to appreciation in stock values .
Some portfolio managers try to offset the crush of cash pouring in during an up market by buying stock-index futures contracts as a temporary proxy for stocks -- a move that allows them to buy time before buying stocks .
As they fill in the equities , they sell the futures .
`` You can fine-tune your cash position '' with futures , says M. David Testa , president of T. Rowe Price Growth Stock Fund .
The concern is seeking the same sort of leeway for its big T. Rowe Price International Stock Fund , whose shareholders will soon be asked to approve the fund 's use of futures on foreign stock-indexes .
This year , through last Thursday , the T. Rowe Price Growth Stock Fund gained 19.46 % , according to Lipper Analytical Services Inc. , which monitors mutual fund performance .
That was just a tad below the 20.43 % gain in the Lipper Growth Fund Index for the same period , and not far below the fund 's 1986 full-year gain of 21.83 % .
Meanwhile , fund assets advanced to about $ 1.60 billion from $ 1.30 billion at yearend .
Still , Mr. Testa says , `` I do n't get real excited if I 'm ahead or behind '' the short-term market .
He notes that the goal of mutual fund investors is longer term .
Just how much of the surge in equity mutual fund sales comes from IRA dollars compared with unrestricted investments is n't clear .
Fidelity says its top-selling funds to IRA accounts during January and February were Magellan , Puritan and Capital Appreciation .
Last year they were Magellan , Puritan and Overseas .
At T. Rowe Price , the big IRA winners so far this year are High Yield , Prime Reserve and International Stock , compared with last year 's Prime Reserve , High Yield and Ginnie Mae .
Vanguard Group of Investment Cos. says its top IRA sellers are the same for both years : Windsor II , Vanguard GNMA and STAR Fund .
Shearson did n't break out IRA accounts , but says its biggest sellers overall this year are Shearson-Lehman Long-Term Government Securities Portfolio , Managed Governments Inc. and Option Income Portfolio .
Oppenheimer Management revved up considerable interest last year when it offered a sports car as top prize in a controversial mutual fund sales promotion .
So , who has the keys ?
`` Nobody won it , '' says Bridget Macaskill , a senior vice president of the concern , a unit of London-based Mercantile House Holdings PLC .
The contest required exceeding $ 5 million with a minimum of 10 sales .
`` Certain people sold the right -LRB- dollar -RRB- amount , but not with the right amount of tickets , '' she explains .
Meanwhile , fund regulators pondered whether any further rein on industry incentives was needed .
They decided to leave the matter in the hands of the National Association of Securities Dealers , which already had a proposal on its books that would ban non-cash incentives to broker-dealers selling real estate partnerships .
The NASD says at the moment it has n't any similar plans for funds .
Currently , funds must disclose any material , non-cash sales incentive in the prospectus . -LRB- Oppenheimer did . -RRB-
Dixons Group PLC , after winning control of Cyclops Corp. Wednesday through a tender offer , is wasting little time taking charge of the Pittsburgh-based company .
London-based Dixons , an electrical appliance retailer , yesterday named three top executives to Cyclops 's board and accepted the resignations of seven directors .
The changes reduce the number of directors to six from 10 .
Named to the board were Egon von Greyerz , Dixons vice chairman and financial director ; Gerald M.N. Corbett , corporate finance director ; and Geoffrey Budd , secretary .
Resigning from the board were Howard J. Burnett , Thomas Phillips Johnson , H. Frederick Krimendahl II , William E. Lieser , William L. Morbratten , Konrad M. Weis and Howard M. Winterson .
Dixons 's changes leave three Cyclops executives on the board , including William H. Knoell , president and chief executive officer .
Dixons won the right to name a majority of board members under a merger agreement last month with Cyclops .
As previously reported , Cyclops holders tendered 2.3 million , or 54 % , of the 4.3 million shares outstanding , under Dixons 's offer to buy all shares for $ 90.25 each , or $ 384 million .
The offer expired Wednesday .
Coupled with Dixons 's existing stake , the tender boosted the company 's holding to 56 % .
In agreeing last month to be acquired by Dixons , Cyclops management rebuffed a competing bid from a group led by Audio/Video Affiliates Inc. , a Dayton , Ohio-based consumer electronics retailer .
The group , which last week conditionally offered $ 92.50 a share for Cyclops , has said it may seek to halt Dixons 's completion of the merger .
The focus of both suitors is Cyclops 's Silo Inc. retailing division , which operates a nationwide chain of appliance and consumer electronics stores .
Dixons plans to retain Silo and sell Cyclops 's specialty steel and nonresidential construction business .
Jan Marasek spent weeks last fall searching for the perfect date .
Not to fill lonely hours on Saturday night , but to fill a box for the actors starring in Neil Simon 's `` Broadway Bound . ''
`` I had such a hard time , '' says Mr. Marasek , production property master for Emanuel Azenberg , the Broadway show 's producer .
`` They did n't want pits , they did n't want them coated ; the ones from Balducci 's and Zabar 's were too big to mouth .
I finally ended up in a health-food restaurant .
I 'm always looking for dates , '' he says with a sigh .
Like many theatrical property people , Mr. Marasek finds that his role often resembles a cross between a maitre d' s and a magician 's .
Years ago , he says , scripts frequently called for actors to be smoking ; now they always seem to be eating .
And edible props are seldom to property masters ' liking .
They first have to please the actors , who may have food allergies or dietary restrictions .
`` When Carol Channing was starring in ' Hello , Dolly ! ' her doctors came backstage to ask what she was eating , '' remembers Mr. Marasek .
`` In one scene , she gobbled down dumplings , which were made of spun sugar so she could eat them easily .
It turned out we were giving her about a cup of sugar per performance . ''
When her physicians demanded an immediate change , Mr. Marasek worked with property man Leo Herbert to produce dumplings made of thin paper sprayed with tea and shaped over small light bulbs to dry .
At each performance , Miss Channing would `` eat '' the dumplings and dispose of them discreetly when she wiped her mouth .
Since almost no one would appreciate the same foods eight times a week , property men have devised creative substitutes .
Mr. Marasek has made eggs from apricot halves surrounded by white bread lightly sprinkled with boiling water .
For the liver in `` Brighton Beach Memoirs '' he used pumpernickel , which , creatively shaped with a pizza cutter , also stars as the pot roast in `` Broadway Bound . ''
`` ' Biloxi Blues ' has the big mess-hall scene , where the kid hates the food , '' he says of the Neil Simon play , which is now on a national tour .
`` When Matthew Broderick starred , he wanted to almost retch when he saw it . ''
The concoction was an unappetizing combination of apple butter and green food coloring .
Property masters also worry about safety .
Mr. Marasek has been known to sew a loaf of bread together to prevent the cast from tripping over a fallen slice .
Eating itself poses a risk to actors , who may swallow more than their lines .
`` A dry cookie can be a disaster , '' he says .
During tryouts of `` Broadway Bound , '' for example , actor John Randolph caught a seed in his throat from a piece of rye bread .
From then on , only seedless loaves were purchased .
Another danger is backstage cooking , which increases the risk of a fire , not to mention the horrifying possibility of a cast felled by food poisoning , or a theater overrun with living things that have n't bought tickets .
That 's why prop men like to keep edibles to a minimum , and preserve purely decorative foods with shellac .
`` It 's good for something with a low moisture content , '' says Edward Gianfrancesco , resident designer at Off Broadway 's WPA Theatre .
`` But we had a prop person use it once on cheeses and fruits .
It was great for a while , except that the varnish became a perfect envelope for everything to turn totally rotten inside . ''
Real food is also expensive .
Since the 1985 Broadway opening of Herb Gardner 's `` I 'm Not Rappaport , '' Mr. Herbert 's staff has bought approximately 84 heads of lettuce , 84 loaves of bread , 63 pounds of tunafish salad , 42 sticks of butter and 28 jars of mayonnaise just to make one sandwich for each performance .
`` Those in the front row have to see that it 's tuna , '' says Mr. Herbert .
But neither of the actors who has had to taste it has liked tuna , which is why the hidden half of the sandwich is purposely made only with butter .
Such grocery costs mount , and although sponsors sometimes ease them by providing coupons or free goods in exchange for a program credit , the arrangement does n't always suffice .
`` Planter 's is giving us cashews for ' Broadway Bound , ' '' says Mr. Marasek .
`` The cast goes through a pound a show , even though there 's only a line about one nut in the script .
We do n't have the nerve to ask Planter 's for all the nuts we use , and they 're $ 5.99 a jar in the supermarket .
No one admits to eating them , but , '' he says with determination , `` I 'm investigating now . ''
To fill a production 's gastronomical needs , property masters have gone everywhere from Oriental food shops to caterers .
Mr. Marasek once even consulted the Catholic Church to find out what the Host was made of , to see if it would be a viable substitute for the `` Hello , Dolly ! '' dumplings .
It was n't .
With so much time , energy and money at stake , property masters prefer artificial food .
Mr. Marasek once made a turkey out of plastic-treated felt and cucumber slices out of silicon caulking compound .
Liquor is almost never real , as some thieves discovered when they broke into Broadway 's Ethel Barrymore Theatre , where Andrew Bergman 's `` Social Security '' is playing .
What they thought was high-quality Scotch proved to be caramel-colored water .
But although artifice plays a major role in property design , theater professionals strive to make their fake edibles look real .
Mr. Marasek usually injects the plastic oranges in `` Broadway Bound '' with water to give them the appropriate weight .
Sound is important , too : If an actress throws what is supposedly a tray of frozen fish sticks in a processing plant , they can n't sound like styrofoam blocks .
This was the problem confronting Mr. Gianfrancesco , who designed the set , complete with styrofoam fish covered with sawdust batter , for the WPA Theatre 's recent production of Israel Horovitz 's `` North Shore Fish . ''
Wood , he reasoned , was too heavy a substitute and a potential danger to the actors .
`` For that particular scene , we made a batch out of Homosote , which is like a very dense cardboard , '' he explains .
`` That tray had to come out in just the proper sequence for her to hurl it and get the sound . ''
There is , however , one area in which no one seeks authenticity .
`` You do n't want the audience to start smelling food cooking , '' warns Mr. Marasek , `` or they 'll all want to walk out to the nearest restaurant and eat . ''
Ms. Graeber is a New York-based freelance writer .
Kingsley Amis , who turns 65 this year , is the finest comic novelist England has produced since Evelyn Waugh .
Like Mr. Waugh , he is often said to be a reactionary in his social views , and the charge is not unfounded .
Certainly he takes a very mordant view of what are now the standard liberal pieties .
Socialism , feminism and the emancipated culture and life styles of the educated middle class -- about these and other phenomena sacred to the liberal mind , Mr. Amis clearly feels a deep revulsion .
He is n't shy about expressing it , either .
On the contrary , he is relentless , hilarious and devastating .
It was not to be expected , therefore , that he would be easily forgiven by those who are the butt of his jokes , and he has n't been .
His last novel , `` Stanley and the Women , '' was so reviled , especially by feminists , that it met with some difficulty in finding an American publisher .
With his new novel , however , even Mr. Amis 's most implacable liberal critics have been persuaded to suspend hostilities .
It is not that `` The Old Devils '' -LRB- Summit , 294 pages , $ 16.95 -RRB- represents any fundamental change in Mr. Amis 's attitudes toward human nature or modern society or anything else .
Far from it .
`` The Old Devils '' is in some respects the grimmest novel Mr. Amis has yet written .
Moreover , its humor , though at times uproarious , is not the kind that mitigates the author 's disabused view of the human condition .
The laughter in this book , as in others by Mr. Amis , leaves a bitter aftertaste .
What has changed is Mr. Amis 's subject .
In `` The Old Devils '' he is now writing about the onset of old age -- not only its physical debilities and social humiliations but its moral illuminations , too -- and writing about this condition from the inside .
The result is a book that is so vivid , so original , so understanding and so wise , that it is likely to become -- at least for those with the stomach to face its dour implications -- a classic among novels dealing with old age , and a comic classic at that .
The story is set in a small coastal town in South Wales in the 1980s .
The old devils of the title are a group of mostly retired middle-class sexagenarians and their wives who have long lived in the same community and know just about everything there is to know about each other .
Their marriages , though mostly surviving , are in various states of disrepair , and likewise their health -- though only in Wales , perhaps , could geriatric medicine be expected to smile quite so benignly upon such Gargantuan intakes of alcohol as are described in this novel .
However placid the surface routine of their lives may be , the minds of these characters are nonetheless awash with sundry regrets , recriminations , and guilt , mostly having to do with the erotic misadventures of their youth , which it is the function of the steady drinking , of course , to assuage and tranquilize .
This it generally succeeds in doing -- until , that is , the crisis that is visited upon them by the return to their midst of the glamorous couple , Alun and Rhiannon Weaver , who have long occupied a special place in their erotic reveries .
Alun Weaver is a handsome television personality who , after a moderately successful but now declining career as a professional -LRB- which is to say , a phony -RRB- Welshman in London , has returned to Wales in the hope of reviving his sagging fortunes on native ground .
Like his still-beautiful wife Rhiannon , he is also the lost love of several of these characters , who prove to be as eager as ever to succumb to his charms .
Unlike Rhiannon , however , who proves to be the most appealing woman Mr. Amis has ever created in his fiction , Alun is a complete rogue , and it is his callous behavior toward just about everyone in this old circle of friends -- not only the women -- that precipitates the climactic events of the story .
Make no mistake : `` The Old Devils '' is a harsh , caustic , unremitting tale of disappointed hopes , aggravated memories and sublimated passions .
Yet it has a happy ending of the sort we have a right to expect from a true comedy .
Mr. Amis never averts his glance from the wreckage of mind and body that age brings in its wake , but in the end he strikes a surprising and persuasive note of forbearance .
And along the way in this flawlessly constructed tale he springs so many other surprises and reversals of sympathy and understanding that we are never in any doubt about the fact that we are in the presence of a master storyteller who has faced the worst and somehow come to terms with it .
Mr. Kramer is editor of The New Criterion .
Every year , when I return from baseball spring training , people ask me what I saw that I liked .
Every year I answer `` spring training . ''
The institution , not its component teams or parks , gets me every time , and the reasons have nothing to do with any dewy stuff about hope springing eternal in my ball-fan 's breast .
I like the feeling of being in warm sunshine when two-thirds of my fellow citizens are walking around wearing mittens .
I like watching baseball from close range with the smell of suntan lotion in my nostrils .
I like the good nature of the crowds at contests in which playing , not winning or losing , usually takes precedence .
The word on spring training is getting around .
Last year 's attendance on the Florida and Arizona circuits set a record , and if the three sellouts in the five games I witnessed last week are any guide , this year 's will set another .
That 's a dangerous trend , especially here in East Coast Florida , where the stone crab population is said to be dwindling .
It held up well enough this month , though .
So did the usual , ample stock of training-camp tidbits :
Monday , March 2 -- It 's picture day at the New York Yankees camp here .
Almost two dozen photogs turn as one and blaze away when Billy Martin , the Yanks ' once and -- who knows ? -- maybe future manager appears in the team 's dugout , resplendent in tan shirt and slacks and snakeskin cowboy boots .
Martin is back for a second year as a Yankees ' TV broadcaster .
He hopes to do color commentary during games instead of the pre- and post-game assignments he drew last season .
`` Last year they gave me only a minute to talk sometimes , '' he snorts .
`` What can you say in a minute ? ''
Tuesday , March 3 -- Tom Lasorda , the Los Angeles Dodgers ' manager , likes to lecture his players .
His topic this day at Vero Beach is base running .
`` I coached third base in the Majors , minors and winter leagues , and I knew how fast every one of my players could run , '' he said .
`` If I waved a guy from first to third on a hit , or from second to home , I expected him to make it .
My man Joey -LCB- Amalfitano , the Dodgers ' present third-base coach -RCB- expects the same .
If you get thrown out , the fans 'll boo him , but when you get back to the dugout , I 'll boo you . ''
Sunday , March 8 -- The Atlanta Braves and Montreal Expos , arguably the two worst teams in the National League , meet in their common spring home of West Palm Beach .
There seems to be a lot of applause , but really it 's people swatting black `` Florida bugs . ''
The biggest cheer of the afternoon goes to this announcement over the public-address system : `` To the owner of a gold Oldsmobile : You are blocking traffic , your doors are locked , your key is in the ignition . . . and your motor is running . ''
Monday , March 9 -- The Yankees play the Minnesota Twins at night in Fort Lauderdale before a full house of 6,793 .
It 's the toughest crowd of my spring stay , by far .
A young man sitting behind me , wearing a Yankee T-shirt , boos such Yankee stalwarts as Don Mattingly , Dave Winfield and Dave Righetti .
When I ask him why , he replies that Mattingly and Winfield make too much money to suit him .
I did n't have to ask about Righetti ; he 'd just given up a three-run , ninth-inning home run to pinchhitter Tim Laudner that sunk the Yanks , 54 .
Even a white-haired vendor was n't immune from criticism .
When he handed an 85-cent bag of peanuts to a man down my row , the guy told him that in Yankee Stadium , the vendors flipped the bags behind their backs .
`` For $ 2 a bag , I 'd flip 'em , too , '' the vendor snapped . -LRB- Actually , peanuts at Yankee Stadium sell for a mere 80 cents a bag . -RRB-
Tuesday , March 10 -- Another SRO throng is on hand to watch the Expos play the American League champion Boston Red Sox .
The Red Sox have a long drive back to their base at Winter Haven , and stipulate that they will not hang around for extra innings .
Would n't you know it ?
The game ends in an 8-8 tie with sunlight aplenty remaining .
Wednesday , March 11 -- The Texas Rangers travel to Miami from their new stadium at Port Charlotte to play the Baltimore Orioles in a night game .
Attendance is sparse at the inner-city stadium , underlining speculation that the O's may seek spiffier digs one day .
Not long ago , the Orioles ' farm system was the envy of the Majors , but no more .
Six members of the team 's starting lineup this night are new or recent acquisitions .
They are Alan Wiggins -LRB- an ex-Padre -RRB- , Rick Burleson -LRB- Angels -RRB- , Fred Lynn -LRB- Angels -RRB- , Ray Knight -LRB- Mets -RRB- , Terry Kennedy -LRB- Padres -RRB- and Mike Hart -LRB- Twins -RRB- .
The youngest are Wiggins and Hart , both aged 29 .
The O's 73-89 record last season was their first losing campaign since 1967 , and a pitching slump was a major cause .
Tonight , Mike Boddicker , Eric Bell and Don Aase three-hit the Rangers in a 2-1 win .
`` Last year we nibbled at the strike zone , '' the veteran Boddicker declared later .
`` This year we 'll challenge the hitters . ''
It also helps if your curve ball breaks a foot , like his just did .
Friday , March 13 -- The Dodgers are another team that fell on hard times last year , limping in fifth in the National League West .
Their biggest problem was bum fielding , their 181 errors being a dubious Major League `` most . ''
It is doubtful , however , if the 1986 team botched an inning as badly as the present one did the second against the New York Mets here today before a packed Holman Field : a walk , a balk , a wild pitch and two infield errors , plus a single , produced three Met runs .
Compounding the felony was a P.A. announcement following this disastrous frame .
It plugged an instructional video by Manager Lasorda and his boys titled `` The Dodger Way to Play Baseball . ''
The Dodgers might not have their timing down yet , but that fella sure does .
Once more you resort to facile and mendacious comparison of President Carter 's conduct in the Iranian hostage crisis in 1980 to President Reagan 's conduct in 1985-86 -LRB- editorial , March 5 -RRB- .
President Carter 's statements on release of frozen Iranian assets -- including arms already bought but undelivered -- were entirely public .
Moreover , there was to be no delivery of any assets until all hostages had been safely released .
By contrast , President Reagan sold new arms that he delivered deviously and in total secrecy -- before hostages were released .
You observe that the Ayatollah Khomeini `` never bothered '' to respond to President Carter 's public proposal .
Quite true .
He did , however , respond eagerly to President Reagan 's secret proffer -- retaining hostages , of course , for future trading purposes .
What would have been the Journal 's editorial reaction if it had been revealed , in September 1980 , that Mr. Carter was engaged in secret arms-for-hostages exchanges with Khomeini ?
The writer was a special assistant to President Carter , 1979-81 .
James L. Powell , a West Texas rancher and business investor , was elected a director of this electric utility , increasing the board to 14 members .
James L. Doti was appointed a director , increasing to seven members the board of this maker of thermoplastic parts and subassemblies for commercial , industrial and medical applications .
He is the dean of the school of business and management and a professor of economics at Chapman College .
Edward E. Mulligan , president and a director of Massachusetts Electric Co. , was named a director of this bank holding company , expanding the board to 25 members .
The Canadian unit of Rothmans International PLC said it would consider spending as much as $ 500 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- on an acquisition .
This would be `` about double '' the $ 250 million in net proceeds it expects to receive from two recently announced transactions .
They include the December merger of Rothmans 's tobacco business with a unit of Philip Morris Cos. , New York , and the proposed sale of Rothmans 's 50.1 % stake in Canada 's third largest brewery , Carling O' Keefe Ltd. .
In a presentation to analysts , Rothmans Inc. 's president and chief executive officer , Patrick Fennell , said the bid for Rothmans 's Carling shares , made last month by a unit of Australia-based Elder 's IXL Ltd. , would net Rothmans about $ 180 million , if approved , as expected , by governmental and regulatory authorities .
The Elders offer is scheduled to expire next Thursday .
Mr. Fennell said Rothmans has `` no targets '' currently , and it has n't retained a financial adviser to seek acquisitions .
But he said the tobacco company is interested in `` opportunities in consumer packaged goods , '' which he described as `` largely recession-proof '' and `` an offset to the business we 're clearly dependent on here in Canada . ''
Mr. Fennell said the merger of Rothmans 's tobacco business with that of Benson & Hedges -LRB- Canada -RRB- Inc. to form Rothmans , Benson & Hedges , gives the new company a 32 % share of the Canadian cigarette market , second to the 51 % share held by market leader Imperial Tobacco Ltd. , a unit of Montreal 's Imasco Ltd. .
Rothmans Inc. is 71.2 % -owned by London-based Rothmans International .
BRITOIL PLC , a British oil company , posted an after-tax profit for 1986 , but an extraordinary charge resulted in a net loss for the year .
The company had after-tax earnings equivalent to $ 52.9 million , at current exchange rates , down 87 % from $ 405.2 million in 1985 .
But an extraordinary charge of $ 80.1 million resulted in a net loss of $ 27.2 million for 1986 .
The extraordinary charge covered the write-down of Britoil 's U.S. oil and natural-gas properties , which the company in November said it would seek to sell .
Britoil 's revenue last year fell 46 % , to $ 1.57 billion from $ 2.88 billion .
The company attributed its lower after-tax earnings and revenue to the drop in oil prices .
It said the average price of North Sea Brent crude oil fell to $ 15.50 a barrel last year from $ 27 in 1985 .
Oil and gas production was little changed last year , Britoil said .
The Feb. 26 page-one article on Louisiana education left the impression that business was shunning the state .
That 's not so .
In 1986 business investment in Louisiana totaled more than $ 2.9 billion .
Nearly $ 1 billion in new investment has already been announced for 1987 .
Investment in manufacturing over the past 10 years is more than $ 20 billion .
Despite the article 's comments to the contrary , Louisiana workers in 1986 were deemed good enough by Boeing to locate a major facility in southwest Louisiana that will employ 1,400 .
And Martin Marietta has selected New Orleans as the site at which it will fabricate modules for the space station if it is the successful bidder on that project .
Also , in the past few weeks Rockwell International has announced plans to move one of its electronics subsidiaries from Texas to northwest Louisiana .
As to workers of Cajun descent , they are capable enough and motivated enough to hold the bulk of the jobs in the offshore oil-exploration industry where the average wage approaches $ 30,000 a year .
In addition , it was a task force of several thousand Cajuns that helped establish the offshore oil and gas industry in the North Sea , as they had done earlier in the Gulf of Mexico .
We in Louisiana are aware of the importance of education .
It is the reason the state allocates nearly one of every three tax dollars to support our schools .
It is also the reason we created a $ 2 billion trust fund for education -- the largest fund of its kind in the U.S. -- and have already deposited the first half-billion in the program .
We know more has to be done , but we are n't alone in our concern .
Some 20 other states have also declared education to be the number one priority .
This is not an isolated problem and certainly not one unique to Louisiana .
Rather it is the result of a long-term decline in American education .
In view of the pervasiveness of the problem , I do n't know why Louisiana was singled out for your article , but I do know that we are one state that is attempting to do something about it .
The oil companies came in with the big bucks .
The people and politicians of Louisiana fell for it .
No matter how good the education system is , if students do n't want to learn , nothing can change it .
The problems started when the oil-field jobs replaced education as the most important part of our lives .
During the rise of oil , people quit school .
There was no need for education when one could earn $ 25,000 to $ 50,000 a year in the oil field .
Now the uneducated parents of our state cannot help their children with third-grade schoolwork .
As a graduate of the Louisiana school system , I got out of it what I put into it .
It was up to me if I wanted an education .
Mr. Elliman of Lucas CAV Ltd. states that Louisiana does n't have employees with the basic skills needed to adapt to change .
I wonder if he knows who designed and built the giant offshore oil and gas platforms that provide heat and fuel for his house or business .
If Lucas CAV Ltd. came to Louisiana , maybe my two brothers -LRB- both engineers -RRB- could work in Louisiana instead of Alabama and Massachusetts .
House Speaker James Wright 's proposal to tax security transactions -LRB- news story , March 3 -RRB- is an inefficient and dangerous way to reduce the federal deficit .
Rep. Wright fails to see that a substantial amount of funds in the equity markets is controlled by labor-backed pension funds , as well as monies invested on behalf of middle-class Americans via mutual funds .
A tax on publicly traded stocks would make these instruments less attractive than other securities .
Wealthy investors would choose to stay away from publicly traded domestic equities in favor of other investments .
It is the middle-class , small investors who would bear a disproportionate amount of this tax , as they lack access to more sophisticated investments .
Derivative products , such as futures and options , would become more attractive .
An investor who wished to put his money in NYSE stocks would find it more efficient to do so by taking long positions in index futures or synthetic positions built with options .
Open interest in these instruments would increase , thereby levering up our already debt-ridden nation .
If we want to avoid abuses on Wall Street , we must deal with this problem directly .
If we wish to reduce the deficit , we must control government excess and waste .
Rep. Wright has found an industry that is currently politically vulnerable , and has decided to harness it to the burdens of a deficit that it did not directly produce .
I applaud Speaker Wright 's proposal .
After all , the U.S. has a major deficit problem , and it 's clear that everyone on Wall Street is an insider trader and deserves to be punished .
Since this transfer tax would not by itself solve the deficit problem , I suggest we try to think of other industries that are candidates for extra disciplinary taxes .
The ideal candidates are industries where the actions of some notable participants have proved that their entire industry is corrupt .
How about pizza parlors ?
The recent `` Pizza Connection '' trial has proved that all pizza parlors are really just fronts for illegal drug activity .
I propose an extra $ 2 tax on every pizza sold -LRB- 50 cents each for individual slices -RRB- .
Of course , some people might claim that much , if not all , of the disciplinary taxes are likely to be passed through to the innocent end consumer -LRB- investors in the first case , pizza lovers in the second -RRB- , but I say we have to punish these corrupt industries , even if the methods are somewhat inefficient .
We need some more candidates .
How about politicians ?
Recent trials in New York City proved that all politicans are crooks .
An extra tax on politicians seems appropriate and is consistent with this new enlightened policy of disciplinary taxation .
Politicians . . .
Oops !
You better be careful , Jim .
I find the idea shocking and unjustified .
General government services should be financed by the income tax .
Our private sector is already in serious economic condition as a result of state and local governments ' conversion of private property through the sales tax , property taxes on land , improvements and equipment , and extortionate building-permit fees .
In the interests of punishing Wall Street for past sins , Mr. Wright proposes to tax pensions , IRAs , Keogh Plans , life-insurance policies and all other forms of retirement income that invest in publicly traded stocks .
David Stockman was right .
Jim Wright is a snake-oil salesman who practices the politics of envy .
Stock volume would plummet and millions would probably be added to the unemployment lines .
Let 's not be too hard on ol ' Jim , though .
Before he went to Congress he was a prizefighter .
They get hit in the head a lot .
Toshiba Corp. makes more than one million microwave ovens a year in Japan .
This year , if Hisao Tanaka prevails , some 60,000 will be powered by American-made capacitors , and the huge U.S. trade deficit with Japan will be some $ 120,000 narrower .
For Mr. Tanaka , a veteran Toshiba manager who works out of an office park in this Boston suburb , persuading his Tokyo colleagues to buy U.S. parts for microwave ovens would be a small but important victory .
In the past , Toshiba 's engineers have resisted substituting American for Japanese parts .
As Toshiba 's head buyer in the U.S. , Mr. Tanaka is heavily engaged in Japan 's latest trade war .
His mission : to buy American .
At times , though , it seems like mission impossible .
Japan 's imports of U.S. goods have indeed increased since Toshiba and other big Japanese companies began a much-publicized buy-American campaign in 1985 , but the gains have n't come easily , and the trade deficit has grown , not shrunk .
Mr. Tanaka partly blames U.S. companies .
All too often , he laments , they seem to go out of their way not to sell to Toshiba .
They decline to bid on contracts that do n't offer an immediate profit , refuse to provide the prompt service that Toshiba expects and occasionally insult the Japanese company -- a diversified multinational with $ 18.74 billion in sales last year -- by demanding cash on delivery .
`` I do n't think they 'd insist with General Electric , '' he says pointedly .
Some U.S. companies , on the other hand , question whether Toshiba is serious about buying American .
A request for information by Mr. Tanaka was `` a fishing expedition , and nothing happened after that , '' says Linda Saul , an administrator at a computerized-design company 's sales office down the hall from him .
Mr. Tanaka concedes that out of every 10 U.S. companies he talks with , only one ends up doing business with Toshiba .
And he acknowledges that some of his colleagues back in Japan are n't deeply committed to buying American .
`` It takes time to buy a new product -- especially from outside Japan .
Nobody wants to take the risk of changing suppliers , '' he explains .
So , despite the dollar 's two-year , 40 % decline against the yen -- which makes American goods cheaper in Japan -- the U.S. trade deficit with Japan remains huge .
Although Japan 's imports of U.S. goods rose 19 % , to $ 26.88 billion , last year , its exports to the U.S. also rose 19 % , to $ 81.91 billion .
As a result , the merchandise-trade deficit grew to $ 55.03 billion from $ 46.15 billion in 1985 .
Some economists contend that it is just a matter of time until the higher yen makes U.S. goods so cheap the Japanese will buy them .
`` We are all disappointed that American exports have n't picked up as we expected , '' says Hugh Patrick , an economist at Columbia University .
`` But the things we tend to export are industrial products -- and it certainly takes time to generate contracts and start making sales . ''
A look at Mr. Tanaka 's frustrations shows just how hard this can be .
Many cultural and corporate differences impede U.S. sales to Japan , no matter how interested both sides claim to be .
Mr. Tanaka insists that Toshiba is clearly committed to buying American .
The company opened its procurement office here last fall -LRB- another one , its first , is in San Francisco -RRB- , doubled the number of buyers in America to eight and tripled its total U.S. procurement-office budget to $ 1 million a year .
Each day , Toshiba 's U.S. buyers get a stream of facsimile messages from Tokyo asking them to find potential vendors , get price quotes or track down delayed orders .
Occasionally , Mr. Tanaka , who will soon be transferred to Toshiba 's international procurement operation in Tokyo , seeks more U.S. suppliers by going to trade shows and collecting catalogs or even by knocking on nearby doors .
The extra effort , he says , is starting to pay off .
This year , Toshiba expects to place orders with 300 to 350 U.S. companies , up from about 200 in 1984 .
A GE-type conglomerate , Toshiba buys lots of things from the U.S. : semiconductors from Motorola Inc. , work stations from Sun Microsystems Inc. , automatic testing equipment from Teradyne Inc. .
Last year , Mr. Tanaka supervised the purchase of $ 46 million of U.S. goods , up 53 % from 1985 .
To help Toshiba increase its imports , Mr. Tanaka is even suggesting that it buy U.S. golf balls to sell to its 60,000 Japanese workers .
`` We must show them the enjoyment of a higher exchange rate , '' he says .
-LRB- Mr. Tanaka himself purchases lots of U.S. beef , but he avoids the American-Japanese car wars -- he drives a German Audi . -RRB-
All told , Toshiba expects to import some $ 520 million in goods from around the world in its fiscal year ending March 31 , with most of that being purchased through trading companies or offices of foreign companies in Japan .
About 70 % of its imports come from the U.S. .
Nevertheless , building American purchases is slow work , says Mr. Tanaka , who puts in a 13-hour day in order to talk with executives in Japan between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m. Eastern time .
`` It took almost a year to train our employees to buy foreign products , '' he says .
Today , says Mr. Tanaka , a chain-smoking , coffee-gulping 36-year-old with a midfive-figure salary : `` If the conditions on buying U.S. goods are the same as from Japanese companies , Toshiba policy is to buy from America .
Two years ago , we would have bought Japanese . ''
For example , he found that a Toshiba microwave-oven plant in Nashville , Tenn. , was satisfied with capacitors that it bought from Aerovox Corp. , an RTE Corp. subsidiary based in New Bedford , Mass. .
He persuaded the oven makers in Japan to test Aerovox capacitors last year and now is negotiating a small contract to send 5,000 to 10,000 of them there .
If they work well , he says , Toshiba will place a regular order , and Aerovox could end up shipping capacitors to a Toshiba microwave plant in England as well .
At Aerovox , a major U.S. maker of microwave-oven capacitors , John A. Churma , its vice president for sales and manufacturing , says he was surprised when Mr. Tanaka approached him about exporting to Japan .
`` We 'd been romancing Toshiba -LCB- in Nashville -RCB- for about six years '' before big sales started in 1986 , he says .
`` I thought the Japanese market would be tougher to crack because of their entrenched manufacturing capabilities . ''
Mr. Tanaka can cite other successes .
Late last year , as the yen rose , Toshiba took the unusual step of replacing its Japanese supplier of hard disk drives for computers with Memorex Corp. , of Milpitas , Calif. , and Kaitex Media Inc. , of San Jose , Calif. .
Emboldened , Mr. Tanaka recently persuaded a top Japanese engineer to evaluate analog-digital converters made by Analogic Corp. , of Peabody , Mass. , even though Toshiba itself makes similar parts .
As Mr. Tanaka sees it , however , American vendors do n't compete effectively with the Japanese .
They do n't treat Toshiba with the eager deference that he expects .
`` In the U.S. , they say the customer is king .
In Japan , the customer is God , '' he says .
Most U.S. companies get business only if Toshiba decides to buy American -- not by outselling a Japanese supplier .
Mr. Tanaka also suspects that many U.S. companies really do n't want to export .
He notes that few write technical brochures in Japanese and that many have n't mastered high-tech export-licensing requirements .
Vernon Alden , a director of several U.S. corporations , comments , `` I do n't think it 's fair to blame the Japanese because they expect to have better service than we give .
The problem is we have gotten sloppy . ''
Mr. Tanaka complains that some U.S. companies take six weeks to provide price quotes even on standard products .
One concern refused to promise a delivery date until Toshiba placed the order -- a troublesome stand because Toshiba 's Japanese plants keep inventories lean .
Last winter , a General Electric Co. transformer plant in Hickory , N.C. , said it could n't ship a small order when Toshiba demanded it .
Mr. Tanaka asked to visit the GE factory to learn the reason .
He says GE 's reply was : If Toshiba left it alone , half the order would be shipped in a week ; if Toshiba officials visited , it would n't be shipped at all .
`` This is 180 degrees opposite of Japan , '' he says .
`` They just do n't want to hear our complaint . ''
A GE spokesman says the company quoted the same delivery times to all customers .
He adds , `` We got people to work overtime over Thanksgiving '' to ship part of Toshiba 's order early .
But when Mr. Tanaka asked to visit , `` We said , ' Please do n't .
It might cause a problem just having additional people be there . ' ''
Mr. Tanaka says a supplier that he will n't name promised a circuit breaker with a special calibration but filled the $ 20,000 order with its standard model .
Toshiba complained .
The supplier said it would take six weeks to recalibrate .
Instead , it offered to tell Toshiba engineers how to do the job .
Desperate for the part , Toshiba agreed .
But when its engineers asked for clarification of the instructions , Mr. Tanaka says , `` The U.S. engineers complained we were wasting their time .
They said we were n't an important enough customer . ''
To U.S. companies , Toshiba can seem picky and imperious .
Analogic was proud when all 100 electronic instruments worked in its first shipment to Toshiba seven years ago .
But Toshiba complained because some minor parts came loose .
`` We thought we 'd performed a miracle .
But they sat there and told me how inferior our products were , '' recalls Bernard Gordon , Analogic 's president .
Today , the companies ' engineers meet quarterly in Tokyo and Peabody .
`` Their expectations of perfection rubbed off on us , '' Mr. Gordon says .
Toshiba 's orders to Analogic now run $ 5 million a year .
When Toshiba ordered a three-ton industrial burner from tiny Pyronics Inc. of Cleveland last year , Mr. Tanaka negotiated visitation rights during the 16-week building process .
Moreover , says Nicholas LaGamba , a Pyronics engineer : `` They demanded a manufacturing schedule from us showing graphically just where we 'd be at each stage of production . ''
That technique was new to Pyronics ; so Mr. Tanaka taught the company how to do it .
Nonetheless , Mr. Tanaka complains that many U.S. suppliers will n't invest the effort to fulfill Toshiba 's expectations .
Mr. Tanaka is particularly frustrated by their reluctance to bid on projects that will n't bring in revenue for several years .
For example , his office is charged with finding U.S. vendors for a fuel-cell power-plant project , but getting bidders has been a grind .
`` They will cooperate and take instant business , but they are n't cooperating in future business , '' he says .
He adds that small Japanese companies would eagerly do engineering work to bid on Toshiba projects but that American companies must be cajoled to do so .
One reason American vendors are cautious is the limited market for power from fuel cells , which efficiently turn chemical energy into electricity .
Lee Ridenour , the Toshiba buyer seeking bidders for the fuel-cell project , says , `` One thing that is scarce in the U.S. is quotation time and engineering time . ''
Toshiba engineers in Japan , drawing up the bid requests , `` were in a climate where they could ask suppliers to do work without pay , '' she adds .
She says one U.S. engineer termed a 20-page request requiring about 100 pages of specifications and drawings `` the Toshiba torture test . ''
And U.S. bidders say they are amazed by the study that Toshiba puts into each bid .
Harry G. Abel , a power-industry specialist at Foxboro Co. , a controls maker in Foxboro , Mass. , says teams of six engineers went to Foxboro twice and also met with him in San Francisco .
`` American engineers tend to spread themselves out over 10 or 12 projects , '' Mr. Abel says , but the Japanese `` were dedicated to this . ''
After all the work , Foxboro lost the contract to another U.S. company , he says .
However , he hopes to get Toshiba business in the future .
Alan gaines knows he 's the type of Wall Streeter that chief executive officers love to hate .
He 's the fast-talking head of an investment firm , lives in a Park Avenue townhouse , drives a Rolls-Royce and earns more than $ 1 million a year .
He also does n't hesitate to tell America 's CEOs how to do their jobs .
Two years ago , the youthful Mr. Gaines flew to Houston to tell Tenneco Inc. 's silver-haired chief executive , 56-year-old James Ketelson , to restructure the $ 15 billion oil conglomerate or risk a takeover .
`` I walk into his office in Houston and Ketelson is like Mr. WASP , Mr. Proper .
And here I am , a 32-year-old kid making more money than he does , telling him how to run his company .
What would your reaction be ? ''
Neither Mr. Ketelson nor Tenneco will comment , but Mr. Gaines says the advice was spurned .
Not that he was surprised .
He 's used to what he calls the `` anti-investment banker , anti-New York , anti-little rich kid '' attitude of big-company executives .
He in turn sometimes holds a disdainful view of Main Street. `` You go out to visit these CEOs who talk very slow , very deliberate. ' Well , sir-r-r , we 're ve-ry interested in long-term valuuuue , ' '' mimics Mr. Gaines , the head of Gaines Berland Co. .
`` I want to say , ' Come on , guy , spit it out .
Talk .
I want to get home by next year . ' ''
Main Street and Wall Street have always been miles apart .
But the takeover fever of recent years , which has thrown together conservative corporate executives and a new breed of young , highly paid raiders and investment bankers , is driving the two cultures still further apart .
The result is a symbiotic relationship often marked by deep clashes in everything from how they make deals and what they wear when making them , to how they spend their money .
`` We have created a monster , '' declares Fred Zuckerman , Chrysler Corp. 's treasurer .
`` Main Street management believes that greed has finally won out .
Executives hate the takeover folks , whom they view as having no useful purpose .
They think even less of the investment bankers .
It 's genuine revulsion at a society that rewards people so greatly for work they perceive to be so unproductive . ''
The recent headline-grabbing spate of insider trading scandals only has widened the chasm .
`` There is a definite tension between corporate types and Wall Streeters , '' says Jonathan Rinehart , whose New York-based public relations consulting firm specializes in takeover-style crises , `` and all this insider trading stuff is just dumping gasoline on the fire . ''
A recent example is the lawsuit by Staley Continental Inc. , a food company , alleging that the investment banking firm of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. tried to pressure Staley management into a leveraged buyout .
Drexel has called the allegation `` totally without merit '' and said the suit is `` an ill-conceived attempt to capitalize on the current climate '' created by the spate of insider-trading arrests .
These days even investment bankers fear Wall Street 's young Frankensteins .
`` I find the whipper-snapper investment banker who 's fresh from Harvard Business School and who 's going to tell you how to run your company , just as tiresome as any other CEO , '' says Robert S Pirie , president and chief executive of Rothschild Inc. .
`` These smart-aleck kids who have gotten bagged -LRB- for insider-trading violations -RRB- ought to go to jail for more than a year , '' he says .
`` Minus their toenails . ''
Along Main Street , here 's how David Culver , 51-year-old former CEO of Amarillo , Texas-based Pioneer Corp. , views Wall Street types :
`` I 'm sick of 'em all , '' he says .
Mr. Culver developed his hostility last year when he sold out to crosstown buddy T. Boone Pickens after being overwhelmed by a phalanx of raiders and investment bankers .
Mr. Culver complains that in boardroom jousts his Wall Street opponents were so single-minded as to appear `` programmed . ''
`` First of all , they 're not a damn bit smarter than me , no matter what they think , '' says Mr. Culver .
Even more disturbing to him , the Wall Streeters seem concerned with little beyond money and their careers .
`` Our guys are much more family-oriented .
They look forward to going home and playing with their children , '' Mr. Culver says .
`` I was president of the Amarillo Club , in the United Way and Rotary , '' he continues .
`` We consider that important .
When the Wall Streeter finally gets home , he 's lucky to see his family , much less go down to the United Way and make calls . ''
It 's still unclear where all the resentment will lead .
But it could trigger a grassroots backlash of the type that toppled another generation of financiers : the robber barons .
Politicians are already on the scent .
`` If you did to a 7-Eleven what -LRB- Wall Streeters -RRB- have done to the American economy , you 'd be doing 20-to-life , '' said James Hightower , outspoken Texas agriculture commissioner , in a recent speech before national Democratic leaders .
Much of this boils down to simple difference in executive style .
To the typical Main Street executive , Wall Streeters are fresh-faced MBAs in tailored suits and mallard-dotted suspenders who come to places like Bartlesville , Okla. , and Akron , Ohio , only to put people out of work -- all the while mouthing terms like `` break-up values '' and `` front-end loaded , two-tier tender offers . ''
In turn , many Wall Streeters seem to view their Main Street counterparts as slow-moving , boorish hicks .
`` The so-called sophisticates tend to be surprised when they find smart guys out there in the hinterlands , '' says Gary Hirsch , a 37-year-old principal in the New York investment firm of Miller , Tabak & Hirsch .
`` They 'll walk out of meetings and say , ' Gee , even though this guy is from Pennsylvania , he knows what he 's doing . ' ''
Still , when Wall Streeters venture down Main Street , sometimes they feel like they 're in a foreign country .
During the unsuccessful visit to Tenneco 's chief executive , Mr. Gaines found himself lunching `` at some place with animal heads on the walls .
It was like eating in the Baptist Club of Houston .
I expected to have to say grace before sitting down .
I mean , in New York I take people to Le Cirque , '' he says , referring to the famed French restaurant .
The difference in lunch style , though , often pales before the difference in lifestyle .
Case in point is last November 's visit by Robert E. Mercer , Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. 's 62-year-old chief executive , to the Manhattan townhouse of Sir James Goldsmith , the Anglo-French investor who then was trying to grab the Akron-based tiremaker .
According to a Goodyear associate , Mr. Mercer was taken aback when he knocked at what he thought was the correct address , only to be told by a smartly dressed butler that Sir James lived several doors down .
Knocking there , the same butler opened the door , explaining to Mr. Mercer : `` This is Mr. Goldsmith 's home .
That was the kitchen . ''
Once inside , the father of five found himself facing two statues of nude females and a myriad of paintings of nudes .
Mr. Mercer , an associate says , has n't yet tired of relating his amazement .
But it is in the boardroom where matters of style matter most .
Nowhere was that more apparent than at Phillips Petroleum Co. in 1984 , when Wall Street specialists arrived to help the Bartlesville oil company fend off a Who 's Who of corporate raiders .
Phillips CEO William Douce and other officials occasionally would roll their eyes after lecture-like presentations by the investment bankers .
Says Mr. Douce , now retired : `` I do n't mind those young people making a lot of money in a short time .
But some of 'em speak as if they were God .
Some of 'em think they may be God .
I 'll tell you a secret .
Most of those fellows come in , listen to you and your people .
Then they take your own ideas , dress 'em up a little and read 'em back to you . ''
Down in the Phillips public relations department , employees were equally put off by the New York firm hired by senior executives hired to manage the company 's media campaign .
Although a Phillips spokesman denies it , a person close to the company says the two sides fought over practically every word of every press release , at times to the brink of fistfights .
`` There was the perception that the New Yorkers thought they had come down here to help the Great Unwashed , '' says a Phillips official .
`` Just because we do n't eat at Tavern on the Green does n't make us any less sophisticated . ''
When the culture clash between adversaries surfaces , it is enough to bring a heated takeover battle to a boil .
That apparently was the case when , during Pennzoil Co. 's unsuccessful bid to acquire Getty Oil Co. , Pennzoil 's tough-talking chief executive , J. Hugh Liedtke , was host to Jay Higgins , then a 38-year-old Salomon Brothers investment banker who represented the Getty Museum , a major Getty Oil shareholder .
Mr. Liedtke asked several anxious questions about the museum 's position on the pending merger , but Mr. Higgins kept silent , Pennzoil lawyer Arthur Liman recalled in recent court testimony .
Suddenly , Mr. Higgins answered all at once : `` Yes , sir .
No , sir .
Yes , sir .
No , sir . ''
Mr. Liman , seeing his boss near explosion , quickly escorted the investment banker from the room .
`` Mr .
Higgins did a number on Mr. Liedtke . . . a mocking of him .
I just wanted to get him out of there , '' Mr. Liman testified .
Mr. Higgins , currently head of corporate finance at Salomon , denies mocking Mr. Liedtke .
He says he was n't entirely responsive to the executive because , at the time , he did n't want to divulge to Pennzoil the Getty Museum 's position . -LRB- Getty Oil was bought by Texaco , a deal that could be undone by a so-far successful lawsuit by Pennzoil . -RRB-
But sometimes Wall Streeters know just how they come across .
The most offensive ones relish it .
Others suggest that stereotypes , used craftily , can be turned to one 's advantage .
Confronting a potentially hostile Midwestern crowd , Daniel Scotto , a utility-bond analyst at L.F. Rothschild , Unterberg , Towbin , may opt for the Wall Street equivalent of full-body armor .
Outside New York , he says , `` If I think I need an extra edge , you will find me in full garb -- my Brooks Brothers suit , my suspenders and my yellow tie .
Other places , with friends , say , I 'll switch to a softer approach .
The light gray suit , blue shirt and blue tie . ''
Main Streeters can be just as canny .
A common tactic might be called `` the country boy ploy , '' a ruse some executives west of the Hudson use in an attempt to coax an opponent into underestimating them .
Before Pennzoil 's court fight with Texaco over the Getty purchase , Mr. Liedtke -- one of the ploy 's foremost practitioners -- portrayed himself as something of an oil-patch rube , a notable feat considering his diplomas from Amherst College and Harvard Business School .
What effect the approach had on Texaco is n't known , but it certainly helped generate sympathetic media coverage for Pennzoil .
In any case , the $ 14 billion jury verdict in Mr. Liedtke 's favor makes some Wall Streeters wary of self-proclaimed country boys .
`` Every time someone says , ' I 'm just a country boy , ' I check my money , button my pockets and give my wallet to my secretary , '' says Rothschild 's Mr. Pirie .
There are tests to help discern Wall Streeters from Main Streeters .
`` I look for the gold Rolex , '' says Chrysler 's Mr. Zuckerman .
`` Wall Street is populated with gold Rolexes and summer houses in the Hamptons .
They never talk long before they start on about their summer house in the Hamptons . ''
Mr. Burrough is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal 's Pittsburgh bureau .
The Economic Report of the President , released in January , contains an informative chapter on women in the labor force .
It shows dramatic changes in the career choices of young women and the resulting changes in their earnings .
The data suggest that women 's nontraditional choices are accomplishing what the anti-discrimination laws of the 1960s and 1970s did not : shrinking the large earnings gap between men and women .
After stagnating for decades , the earnings ratio of women to men has been moving upward in the 1980s .
The latest figures from the Census Bureau show that in 1985 women earned 65 % of what men did .
This compares with the 1960-80 period , when the ratio for full-time workers changed little , ranging from a low of 57 % in 1972 to a high of 60 % , which was reached several times during the two decades .
This stagnation suggests that 1960s legislation prohibiting employment discrimination and in some cases mandating affirmative action did little to improve the relative earnings of women .
There are , however , sound economic reasons to question whether employment discrimination is the sole reason or even the primary one behind the male-female pay gap .
The very size of the earnings differential should give one pause .
If an employer really could hire women willing and able to do the same work as men for 40 % less , he would have a very strong incentive to do so .
The average business earns a profit of 5 % on total sales .
Surely many employers would jump at the chance to cut labor costs by 40 % .
As more and more employers did this , the demand for women would expand .
Women 's earnings would rise and the earnings ratio would move toward parity .
A more convincing explanation for the differential lies in a married couple 's traditional attitudes toward work -- attitudes that have persisted over a very long time , but show recent signs of change .
Married men typically pursue paid employment aggressively when they are the family 's primary breadwinner .
To improve their earnings , married men are more likely than married women to accept transfers , pursue careers in which uninterrupted work experience is important , and accept jobs with long hours , uncertain schedules and out-of-town travel .
In contrast , women generally have had the primary responsibility for running households and caring for children .
At least in the past , women have anticipated that they will interrupt their careers for various personal reasons .
As a result , they tend to seek jobs with less travel and more flexible hours .
They may also want jobs that will be available in a wide variety of locations so that if the family moves , they can enter the job market easily , with little reduction in earning power .
Viewed in this light , it is not surprising that women have been attracted to nursing , teaching , secretarial and other jobs with easily transportable skills .
What evidence would support or contradict this hypothesis ?
Preferences cannot be easily measured , but we can compare the earnings of women relative to men according to marital status .
The median annual earnings for full-time , year-round workers who are female and married are only 60 % that of married men . -LRB- If part-time , married workers are included , the ratio is 39 % . -RRB-
When single women are compared with single men , however , the ratio rises to 90 % -- a much smaller difference in earnings .
Similarly , single men working full-time earn only 62 % as much as married men .
The logical conclusion is that a man with a wife to bear the greater share of their family responsibilities has more time to devote to his job , and the flexibility to adopt uncertain schedules or change locations , increasing his earning power .
Evidence is emerging that more and more women now plan for a long-term continuous attachment to the labor force , rather than merely intermittent periods of employment .
The president 's economic report this year says that among a national sample of young white women in 1979 , 72 % expected to be working at age 35 , up from only 28 % in 1968 .
There also has been a dramatic change in the educational choices of women .
Today , more women are preparing for high-skilled , high-paying professions .
As recently as 1971 , only 7 % of the law degrees and 10 % of the accounting degrees were earned by women .
In 1985 , however , women earned 38 % of the law degrees and 49 % of the accounting degrees .
Similar changes have taken place in other professions , including medicine , architecture and engineering .
Of course , these changes will exert their primary impact in the future , as women now entering the professions and planning for a more permanent attachment to the labor force acquire experience and move up job ladders .
However , as the recent evidence indicates , these trends are already making a difference .
Paradoxically , at a time when many feminist leaders consider the political environment hostile , women 's choices of occupation and work force attachment are propelling the relative earnings of women upward at last .
Mr. Gwartney is a professor of economics at Florida State University .
He and Richard L. Stroup , who helped with this article , just published a new edition of their text , `` Economics : Private and Public Choice . ''
In the beginning was the playing field , and it was good .
Then came television and agents and , most of all , big money .
And somewhere between Chicago 's ancient Comiskey Park and the ultramodern Superdome in New Orleans , the playing field evolved into the enclosed , multi-use stadium , a symbol of civic vitality linked not only to baseball and football but to politics and economic development as well .
Along the way , acquiring a stadium became one of the most fiercely fought games in sports .
At present , some 20 North American cities are each gambling $ 100 million or more that a new or renovated stadium will lure or keep a coveted sports franchise .
A wide range of people are involved , including team owners , architects and a flotilla of legal , financial and political specialists , who scrap for consulting jobs that barely existed a decade ago .
But amid the action , questions abound .
Will there be enough teams , tractor pulls and trade shows to keep all the stadiums from racking up huge deficits ?
How will the new tax law affect financing and the boom in luxury seating , which is helping to fuel many of the ventures ?
And most fundamentally , who ultimately will pay for the stadiums -- and who will benefit ?
Supporters of the ventures frequently argue that , even if a stadium loses money , the community benefits from the development it attracts and the jobs it creates .
Moreover , they contend , each dollar spent at the stadium ripples through the economy -- the so-called multiplier effect -- as it is spent and re-spent .
Critics counter that the true beneficiaries are team owners , who usually wind up with favorable deals either to relocate or stay put , while losses generally wind up in the taxpayer 's lap .
Robert Baade , an economics professor at Lake Forest College in suburban Chicago who has studied stadium economics , asserts that jobs created by stadiums are largely temporary -LRB- construction -RRB- or low-paying -LRB- service -RRB- , and that the multiplier effect can be illusory .
Typically , he notes , money spent at sports events is n't new , but is shifted from another activity , such as family entertainment .
In seven of nine cities he studied , the city 's share of regional income actually declined after a new stadium was built .
The New Orleans Superdome , which opened in 1975 , illustrates both sides of the debate .
On the one hand , the lavish facility ended up costing $ 163 million instead of the original estimate of $ 45 million , and it has run up some impressive deficits -- as much as about $ 12 million annually from 1977 to 1980 .
But it has also sparked an estimated $ 5.5 billion building boom and made New Orleans a regular stop on the Super Bowl rotation -- which means an estimated $ 100 million economic infusion every four or five years .
`` It was the deal of the century , '' says Glennon Walsh , a stadium designer with St. Louis-based Sverdrup & Parcel and Associates Inc. , which took part in the Superdome 's construction .
Perhaps , but Prof. Baade believes much of the development would have happened anyway .
Also , not all stadiums have inspired such development , and some cities -- particularly colder , northern ones -- would n't get a Super Bowl no matter what kind of facility they built .
`` You may bring in business , but offsetting that is the operating deficit , '' says Bruce Bingham , a consultant with Peat , Marwick , Mitchell & Co. in New York .
`` If budgets are strained and you have to raise taxes , you 're shooting yourself in the foot . ''
Indeed , threadbare public budgets have forced developers to finance creatively , and have given rise to the latest buzzword in stadiums : `` privatization . ''
Though most stadiums still rely heavily on public money , private sources of revenue are playing a greater role .
Consider Toronto 's plan : $ 30 million from municipal taxes , $ 30 million from provincial lottery proceeds and $ 5 million each from 15 corporations buying the rights to such things as supply contracts , advertising , parking spaces and use of the stadium logo .
Individuals can contribute by purchasing up to $ 15 million of sponsorship tiles on the stadium 's `` Wall of Fame , '' or some $ 15 million of preferred shares that may be issued publicly .
Revenue could also come from a proposed 450-room hotel attached to and owned by the stadium , and , of course , from luxury boxes .
Luxury boxes , which have gained immense popularity among stadium developers , are a major element in most privatization plans .
These enclosed seating arrangements , usually featuring such amenities as couches and television sets , lease for up to $ 50,000 a year .
Often used to entertain business clients , they can help pay off debt service , provide added revenue for team owners and sharply reduce or eliminate government subsidies , making stadium projects more palatable politically .
But privatization based on luxury boxes depends largely on the market .
`` You have to have a team that people will kill to see , '' as well as enough businesses with a need to entertain important customers , says Larry Greenberg , a stadium consultant with Coopers & Lybrand in Minneapolis .
And under the new tax law , he adds , future stadium projects will n't be able to use tax-exempt bonds for financing ; thus , cash-flow requirements in private developments will rise .
New deductability rules may also slow demand for luxury boxes .
Mr. Bingham of Peat Marwick fears , too , that an overabundance of stadiums will strain the supply of special events needed to cover expenses .
`` Dark days , '' he says , referring to the times when a facility is n't booked , `` are death . ''
Naturally , sports-hungry cities believe promoters will fill the need for events , that teams can be lured and that local businesses will always buy luxury boxes , regardless of team quality or tax deductability .
Why else would St. Petersburg , Fla. , and San Antonio , Tex. , among others , be pursuing stadiums so ardently ?
Last November , St. Petersburg broke ground on an $ 85 million domed baseball stadium despite a sobering letter from Peter Ueberroth , the sport 's commissioner .
`` We interpreted that letter as saying that if you 're thinking that by building a stadium you 'll get a team faster , please be aware that will n't be the case and you might never get it , '' says Robert D. Obering , the city manager .
The city , still confident it can win a major-league team , hopes that until it does it will be able to book 100 days of conventions annually , as predicted by its marketing consultants .
Critics claim , however , that St. Petersburg lacks enough hotel rooms to support the conventions -LRB- though Mr. Obering believes the stadium will encourage construction of more . -RRB-
And the city also faces competition from another stadium project across the bay in Tampa .
In San Antonio , Jim Eskin , executive director of San Antonians for a Domed Stadium , sees new jobs and a booming tourist trade through his `` macroeconomic binoculars . ''
But San Antonio , a small market that has n't supported sports teams well in the past , has n't yet surveyed interest in luxury boxes , a significant part of the financing plan .
Nor has the city been prominently mentioned as an expansion candidate by either professional baseball or professional football .
Mr. Eskin insists that his city has been overlooked because it does n't have an adequate stadium .
`` This is a make-or-break year , '' he says .
`` There 's a footrace to get teams , and if we do n't get cracking we 'll fall further behind . ''
For both cities , this is risky .
`` You have to have at least one franchise , or a virtual monopoly on events in your area , '' for a stadium venture to work , says Marc Ganis , a partner in Sportssuites Inc. , a New York-based builder of stadium additions .
Whether the issues surrounding stadiums are resolved or not , development fever could cool soon if interest rates rise sharply or if sports leagues find a way to restrict franchise relocations without running afoul of antitrust laws .
Moreover , the special arrangement under which the cities currently considering stadium projects can continue using tax-exempt bonds expires in 1990 .
`` The party 's certainly going to slow down '' by then , says Mr. Greenberg , the stadium consultant .
`` I 'll probably have to find something else to do . ''
N.V. PHILIPS , citing narrowing profit margins , said it plans to reduce the labor force at its small-appliance facility in Drachten , the Netherlands , by nearly 16 % over the next three years .
The reduction would cut 300 jobs , many of them white-collar , from the 1,900 positions at the facility , where the bulk of the Dutch company 's Philishave and Norelco brand electric razors are made .
Philips 's profit margins have been eroded by the weak dollar , which has reduced the amount of guilders produced by sales denominated in the U.S. currency .
UNDERWOODS PLC and WOOLWORTH HOLDINGS PLC said they ended talks about Woolworth 's possibly acquiring the drugstore chain .
The two companies said only that the decision represented a `` mutual and amicable agreement . ''
Earlier this month , they said they could n't agree on terms , but discussions continued .
London 's stock exchange began a probe of trading in Underwoods after a big shareprice jump occurred before it disclosed merger talks with an unidentified party last month .
Underwoods later said that Woolworth , a retailer that is n't related to the U.S. company of the same name , was the suitor .
You see it daily in the corridors of corporate America : the would-be chief executive officer committing the classic eager-beaver boo-boo .
He comes to work early , stays late and conducts after-hours chicanery , if any , with the discretion of a George Smiley .
For lunch , he starts nibbling nail-bed regimens of rabbit food at his desk .
His dark-blue tie stays taut .
His shirt -- one of those colored jobs with white collar and cuffs -- stays buttoned .
Sometimes his dark-blue suit coat stays on all day .
With a new , paternal smile , he starts acknowledging hallway colleagues with a measured , low-decibel `` Nice to see you . ''
Mail starts getting answered like this : `` Thank you for your -LRB- pick one -RRB- kind/generous/thoughtful/engaging note , '' instead of like this : `` I thought I knew the depths to which stupidity could be measured , but your letter . . . . '' His bad breath miraculously stops .
Hair growing out of his ears disappears .
You 'll want to keep an eye on this turkey , because he 's eventually going to make your life miserable .
What 's happened ?
Somebody from upstairs has pulled him aside and whispered the chromosome-altering words : `` One day , son , all this could be in your hands . ''
It will n't be , of course .
His highest title will be vice president in charge of serious . -LRB- Somebody 's got to do it -RRB- .
He 's peaked too early .
He 's gotten dull too soon .
You have to get dull in stages , shedding just enough humanity , whimsy , collegiality and sartorial eccentricity with each promotion to exhibit a bit more of the progress , maturation and fine-tuning required to comfort -LRB- or sedate -RRB- board members and shareholders .
As a fast-rising underling , you want to excite .
As a CEO , you want to soothe .
This reverse metamorphosis from flash-and-trash butterfly to well-turned-out worm is a delicate maneuver that requires perfect timing and a devotion to greed strong enough to overcome the mental torture associated with going bland . -LRB- If you own your company and do n't have to grovel to bankers and investors , forget this part . -RRB-
We are n't talking about executive style here . -LRB- Incidentally , men 's fashion designer John Weitz , who wrote `` Man in Charge '' and lunches with tycoons a lot , says that in today 's takeover-ravaged corporate America , CEOs rarely last long enough to develop their own style .
Ousted CEOs , on the other hand , have a definite style .
`` It 's extraordinary how they shrivel and slouch , '' Mr. Weitz says .
But that 's another story . -RRB-
What we are talking about here is packaging -- that expensive game of visual trickery long associated with the Cheshire cat and annual reports .
Both sexes can play , though experts say the aspiring female CEO will have to spend at least 50 % more on packaging than her male counterpart to achieve prudent levels of blandness .
All this is especially perilous at the moment because you 're climbing the ladder in the middle of a slight uptick in flamboyance -- bright hankies -LRB- pocket squares -RRB- , suspenders -LRB- braces -RRB- with frolicking nudes , tie bars , that kind of stuff .
As always , ascent rates depend on looks , not deeds -LRB- though for men , marrying the boss 's daughter remains a strong move -RRB- .
So forget about hard work , innovative thinking , the bottom line and the rest of the stuff in this report .
This is the straight poop .
We 've consulted the oracles of corporate fashion , read the how-to books , scoured the magazines and ads -LRB- `` Introducing DeRigueur , for the man who has learned to wear his income properly . '' -RRB-
We 've even attended a `` dynamic Executive Wardrobe Engineering seminar , '' conducted for $ 2,500 by Lois -LRB- `` Dress for Excellence '' -RRB- Fenton .
This is the same seminar Ms. Fenton gives for the troops at Drexel Burnham Lambert , so she is obviously the real power behind junk bonds . -LRB- For $ 900 a day , she 'll go shopping with you , too . -RRB-
Dash out and buy yourself the proper writing implement : a Mont Blanc Diplomat fountain pen -LRB- List : $ 265 -RRB- is fine ; the same model in solid gold -LRB- $ 6,500 -RRB- is a bit much .
And take good notes .
Basics first .
Columnist Dave Barry , author of the seminal work `` Claw Your Way to the Top , '' says it best : `` Basically , the American businessman should dress as though he recently lost his entire family in a tragic boat explosion . ''
This is neither cheap nor easy .
Furthermore , CEO candidates are n't just business executives .
They 're would-be titans .
They can n't be just average .
They have to mold the basic dull look into their own fashion statement and pay exorbitant sums to achieve it .
You can n't get away anymore with a dark blue suit , white shirt and dark blue tie .
It says you 're playing it safe .
It makes board members suspicious .
You can n't get away with being what the trade calls `` fashion forward , '' either . -LRB- That means wearing togs designed by guys whose names end in vowels . -RRB-
It says you 're playing it unsafe .
It makes board members suspicious .
Men have a primordial fear of dandyism .
Potential CEOs have to pretend they do n't care about clothes .
They must keep their preoccupations with mirrors in the closet .
And if you do n't think they know about mirrors , how do you explain the stock market ?
The basic problem -LRB- beyond the fact that American men usually wear pants that are too short , scruffy shoes , short-sleeved shirts and things colored purple or green -RRB- is dumb suits .
Unless you 're paying a grand or so for your dark blue or grey caulk stripe , you may as well punt .
The safest suit in America -LRB- price range : $ 875 to $ 1,295 -RRB- is made in Chicago by Oxxford Clothes Inc. , whose chairman , Jack McDonald , humbly explains : `` We aim it at the power structure of the United States .
We aim to separate the men from the boys . ''
Says designer-author Alan Flusser -LRB- whose own tailor-made suits sell for $ 895 -RRB- : `` Wearing an Oxxford is like wearing molded air , it 's so soft .
It actually feels like what it costs .
It 's better than 99 % of the custom-tailored suits in the world .
But in my opinion , it 's designed for a guy who wants to feel great in a suit yet has no sense of aesthetics whatsoever . ''
Custom-made suits : Besides Mr. Flusser , there 's Morty Sills , also in New York , and Savile Row .
You can do all right in Hong Kong -LRB- cheap buttons are a dead giveaway -RRB- if you 're smart .
It 's kind of like shopping at Brooks Brothers -- okay , but you want to try to avoid being seen doing it .
Dark blue , gray , striped or solid , and tan .
Not dark brown .
If you think Ronald Reagan is in trouble with Americans because of his Iran-Contra fiasco or deficits , think again .
Our sartorial sleuths say it 's because he wears dark brown suits .
Shirts : Paying through the nose is the best policy .
Custom-mades by Turnbull & Asser -LRB- London -RRB- can skirt dandyism .
Paul Stuart -LRB- New York , Tokyo -RRB- sells made-to-measure shirts for from $ 58 to a seemingly hefty $ 130 each because , among other things , their `` cuffs have a personal relationship to the wrists they encircle . ''
Any shirts that have personal relationships seem highly desirable to us .
`` You will never , ever , as long as you live , wear a short-sleeved shirt for any business purpose , '' wrote John T . -LRB- `` Dress for Success '' -RRB- Molloy .
This is nonsense if you live in San Diego , says Mr. Weitz .
Watches : The way science education is going in this country , it may soon be a sign of intellectual prowess to be able to tell time on an analog .
So you want a watch with hands , not digital displays .
That chunky Rolex diving watch that James Bond and JFK popularized in the '60s , Mr. Weitz notes , was made to say : `` Stay down here at 140 feet for another four minutes , and a meteor storm of nitrogen bubbles will soon make cottage cheese out of your brain . ''
If you want to say that around the office , wear one .
If your brain is already cottage cheese , wear the solid gold version .
Footwear : People who wear scuffed shoes are communists .
Period .
People who wear dumb shoes are Japanese businessmen .
If you want to know why having all the money does n't bring Japan respect , look at Japanese feet .
Best off-the-shelf shoes in America are at , of all places , Brooks Brothers .
They 're British-made .
So , of course , are good Church 's .
Our man , surely , needs custom-made .
And that means John Lobb , the legendary British bootmaker .
But when somebody asks , `` Are n't those Lobb of St. James ? '' you say , `` Oh , heavens no .
Lobb of Paris , of course . ''
Older , more experienced shoemakers there , Mr. Flusser points out .
In any case , dip into your children 's education fund .
Lobbs cost around $ 500 each .
No , not each pair .
Each foot .
Note : White shoes are fine , if you 're aspiring to be CEO of a company selling pre-owned Oldsmobiles in Podunk .
Ties : There is nothing wrong with spending $ 50 for a necktie .
When some ties start costing $ 100 , however , you 'll have to throw all your $ 50 ties away or risk looking cheap .
Please , no ties that tell a story , like the one we own that shows Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers dancing .
Says Ms. Fenton : Ties need names , like foulards .
Our paced-incremental-dullness formula dictates that whatever gewgaw patterns you have on your foulards -LRB- diamonds , crowns , pheasants , dots , baby sharks , whatever -RRB- , do this : With each major promotion , buy new ones on which the gewgaws are one size smaller .
Men who wear dark blue ties with microscopic pin dots are called `` Sir '' a lot .
And only buy silk . -LRB- For that matter , never wear any clothes made out of petroleum , only things made by sheep , plants or worms -RRB- .
Colors : For people who actually produce a tangible product , dark blue , burgundy and power red are in .
Wall Street money shufflers can still get away with yellow -LRB- very 1985 -RRB- .
Pink is still around , but avoid it if your company makes a product with more than three moving parts .
Bow ties are making a bit of a comeback .
But would you trust Arthur Schlesinger or George Will to be your CEO ?
Leisure : You need to start practicing now so you will n't show up at the fox hunt in bluejeans .
Tennis , running and sweat sports are exercise , not leisure .
Golf should be considered work and thus conducted during working hours .
True leisure starts with a Thomas & Thomas catalog .
You need a fine Tonkin bamboo or old Leonard flyrod , a reel by Ross , Hardy or Michel Pezon and custom-made Ranger waders -LRB- trout can be trite unless you go to Bhutan or New Zealand for them , but Labrador and Norway salmon never are -RRB- .
To demonstrate they are n't averse to bloodletting at the helm , CEOs must appreciate sedate blood sports -LRB- not dog-fighting , dummy -RRB- .
Thus the need for shotguns .
Purdeys , of course , or Holland & Holland .
A brace .
While you may think that sacrificing your child 's education is a high price to pay for $ 40,000 worth of shotguns , just remember : There is nothing more telling than a man with a single Purdey .
If death disturbs you , shoot clay pigeons .
Just keep it to yourself .
Dogs : Two or three Chinese sharpeis for the wife are okay .
But your dogs should do what dogs were made to do : hunt , point and retrieve , not roll over or chase some dumb ball .
A stubborn Chesapeake Bay retriever or American water spaniel will do .
Borzois , mastiffs -- we do n't know .
If you need a dog for protection , you live in the wrong neighborhood to be a CEO .
For children : any old expensive mutt .
And a yacht .
But , pul-eeze , refer to it as a boat .
Mr. Sterba is a senior special writer in The Wall Street Journal 's New York bureau .
Consumer spending jumped 1.7 % in February after a sharp drop the month before , while personal income rose a healthy 0.9 % , the Commerce Department said .
The increase in spending followed a 2 % plunge in January , the sharpest since the department began keeping the figures in 1959 , and a revised 2.4 % surge in December .
The December rise was previously reported as 2.2 % .
The income increase followed a 0.2 % rise in January .
The figures were affected by several factors , including subsidy payments to farmers and a pay raise for federal workers .
Excluding such factors , income increased 0.6 % in February and 0.3 % in January .
Much of the February rebound in spending reflected higher auto sales , partly in response to dealer incentives .
Also , car sales had fallen sharply in January after surging in December as consumers sought to beat the Jan. 1 repeal of the sales-tax deduction .
Despite the February spurt , many economists contend spending will decline or will change very little for the quarter .
Consumer outlays fell in the fourth quarter .
`` This was a rebound from extremely depressed levels , '' said Bruce Steinberg , senior economist at Merrill Lynch Economics Inc. in New York , who predicts that spending will show a drop for the quarter .
Although he expects outlays to gain moderately in the second quarter , he contends that growth will be constrained by low consumer savings levels .
Last month , the savings rate fell to 3.6 % of after-tax income from 4 % in January .
Spending on durable goods , which are intended to last three years or more , rose last month after falling in January .
Spending on nondurable goods and on services increased in both months .
On income , the department said the farm subsidy payments affected both the January and February figures , while the pay raise for federal workers occurred in January .
Also affecting the January data were cost-of-living adjustments and changes in the contribution levels for Social Security and other programs .
The changes included increases in the taxable wage base for Social Security and in the monthly premium for supplemental medical insurance .
Even accounting for these factors , several economists characterized the latest rise in income as robust , saying it reflected the strong employment figures of recent months .
`` It 's the outsize increases in employment we 've been having , '' said Richard Peterson , senior vice president at Continental Illinois National Bank in Chicago .
But he added that some of that strength may be attributable to unseasonably warm weather that buoyed construction employment .
Income gains may be smaller in the months ahead , he said .
Wages and salaries rose 0.8 % in February after a 0.6 % rise the month before .
Factory payrolls increased 0.5 % after a 0.4 % advance .
For the second month in a row , unusual factors distorted disposable income , the amount of money people had available to spend .
In February , there was an increase in withheld federal income taxes partly reflecting the adjustment by individuals of their tax withholding to reflect the new tax law .
In January , withholding had been reduced , partly because many people had n't made the adjustment and were having too little taken out of their paychecks .
There was a drop in estimated tax payments in February , however , following an increase in January , when people were trying to compensate for insufficient withholding .
State and local tax payments fell in February .
In listing these items , the department cautioned that estimates of tax payments at this time of year are based on fragmentary information and are subject to larger revision than usual .
The income and spending figures are adjusted for seasonal variation , but not for inflation .
A spending-based price measure reported after a one-month lag rose 0.8 % in January after increasing 0.3 % in December .
The February rise in outlays brought them to a $ 2.856 trillion annual rate from a $ 2.807 trillion pace in January .
Income increased to a $ 3.581 trillion rate from a $ 3.549 trillion pace .
Here is the Commerce Department 's latest report on personal income .
The figures are at seasonally adjusted annual rates in trillions of dollars .
RYAN 'S FAMILY STEAK HOUSES INC. said its board approved a 3-for-1 stock split , subject to stockholders ' approval of an increase in authorized common shares .
Holders of the Greenville , S.C. , restaurant concern will vote April 22 on a proposal to increase authorized shares to 100 million from 20 million .
The company currently has about 17.3 million shares outstanding .
If the plan is approved , Ryan 's said the stock split would be distributed May 20 to stock of record May 6 .
A coup d' etat has taken over American policing .
Gradually , with little public notice , police managers have lost control over how officers spend their time .
The usurper is the telephone .
According to at least one police chief , 911 runs the police department .
Most police effort is directed simply on the basis of telephoned citizen requests for immediate service .
This system is neither rational nor democratic .
Sgt. Bud Emerson of the Minneapolis Police Department has an experimental weapon to cut down on chronic calls to 911 , something no other police department has .
This weapon , a computer printout , lists the handful of addresses that generate the most crime in Minneapolis .
The list includes the 500 addresses -LRB- out of 172,000 in the city -RRB- that produced 23 % of all the robberies , 15 % of all the rapes and 19 % of all the assaults and disturbances in 1986 .
The list , produced by the Crime Control Institute in Washington , D.C. , also shows that a mere 5 % of all the addresses in Minneapolis produced 64 % of all the calls for police service .
Sgt. Emerson and the four officers in the Minneapolis Police RECAP -LRB- Repeat Call Address Policing -RRB- Unit have another weapon in very short supply : time .
Because other officers are responsible for answering the 911 calls the RECAP Unit is analyzing , RECAP officers have time to study the list and examine the types and times of calls at each address .
They have time to talk to the owners , managers and residents of the most active addresses , to diagnose the problems and to seek solutions .
And they have time to follow up on the problems to make sure the solutions are working , or to try other approaches that will work better .
Police have known for years that crime is more concentrated in some parts of a city than in others .
But it was not until the National Institute of Justice sponsored the RECAP project that it became clear just how concentrated crime is .
For even in a high-crime area , most addresses never suffer the crimes that generate calls for police service .
Patrolling just as much at those addresses as at the high-crime addresses may well be a waste of time and money .
Police also have known that they get many repeat calls at certain addresses .
With the growth of 911 systems , such calls have increased , and police spend more time at these most active addresses than at other locations .
But it is not `` quality '' time .
Their responses must be brief and superficial , given the time pressures they are under to respond to still other repeat-call locations .
Such `` reactive '' policing , as Yale University 's Albert Reiss calls it , keeps putting out the fire but never takes away the matches .
Minneapolis Police Chief Anthony Bouza , chairman of the Crime Control Institute , agreed to help test the Institute 's RECAP plan as part of his commitment to the new philosophy of `` proactive '' policing , under which police take greater initiative in analyzing and selecting the crime problems they will attack .
Repeat offenders , narcotics pushers , drunken drivers and corrupt congressmen -LRB- in Abscam -RRB- have all been the focus of such proactive efforts in recent years .
While critics of proactive policing find `` Big Brother '' overtones in such efforts , they probably would find much of the RECAP Unit 's work innocuous .
One address on Sgt. Emerson 's list , for example , showed almost daily burglar alarms at 5:30 a.m. , consistently false .
With different officers handling the calls , no one ever noticed the pattern .
But once RECAP officer Skip Goodmanson looked into it , he found that a newspaper delivery crew was throwing a stack of newspapers off the truck and up against the front door , setting off the alarm .
A conversation with the delivery crew solved the problem .
Another address on the list was a skid-row mission , which generated repeated calls because of drunks they had expelled smashing the windows and breaking in the door .
RECAP advised the mission to get shatterproof plexiglass windows and a steel door .
But RECAP is also attacking serious crime .
After meeting regularly with the owner of a chronic-call apartment building , RECAP officer David Martens learned that there was a large drug-selling operation in one of the apartments .
His information helped the Narcotics Unit get a warrant to make the largest heroin seizure in that city in recent years .
The landlord of another building examined the RECAP printout to see which tenants generated most of the calls for domestic disturbances , noise complaints and other problems .
On the basis of the printout , he said he would try to evict the tenants generating chronic problems .
This raises the question of whether the police in a free society should be in the business of getting people evicted , or even providing information to landlords that may have that effect .
In Minneapolis , a call to the police is a public record and there is no legal basis to deny anyone access to such information .
If evictions can help deter future problems , then police should not discourage landlords from taking such actions .
Most of the businesses on Minneapolis 's RECAP list have been surprised to discover just how many police dispatches are directed to their locations .
But with a few exceptions , they have been very cooperative in trying to find ways to reduce repeat calls .
Number one on the list , a large discount retail store , had 810 calls last year , the bulk of them for police to do paper work on shoplifters who had already been apprehended .
In consultation with Sgt. Emerson , the store decided to hire off-duty police officers to book the shoplifters at the store 's expense .
Perhaps the least cooperative group has been bar owners , one of whom would not even return phone calls from RECAP .
Some of the bars on the list have substantial problems of violent crime .
RECAP has ideas for how the bars can reduce such crime -LRB- such as not admitting or not serving intoxicated customers -RRB- .
But if a bar does n't cooperate , the RECAP officers can use their printout to argue that the bar 's liquor license should be revoked .
This `` problem-solving '' RECAP strategy is only one way of dealing with the concentration of crime at a few addresses .
In addition , traditional police methods , such as foot patrols , decoys and the presence of police cars , might be much more effective if they were concentrated at the high-crime addresses .
Municipal budget cutbacks require police to do what the National Institute of Justice 's director calls working smarter , not harder , to fight crime .
Mr. Sherman is a professor of criminology at the University of Maryland and president of the Crime Control Institute , which is developing and testing the RECAP strategy in Minneapolis .
FIRST AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP. , Santa Ana , Calif. , declared a special dividend of 20 cents a share in addition to its quarterly dividend of 25 cents a share .
The dividends will be paid by the title insurance company April 15 to stock of record March 31 .
NYNEX CORP. increased its quarterly dividend 9.2 % , to 95 cents a share from 87 cents , payable May 1 to shares of record March 31 .
The company said the dividend reflects a confidence in its ability to tap `` the great potential of the expanding markets we serve . ''
Nynex is a New York-based regional Bell holding company .
O' BRIEN ENERGY SYSTEMS INC. said it began an offering of $ 25 million of 7 3/4 % convertible subordinated debentures due March 15 , 2002 .
The debentures will be convertible into the company 's Class A common shares at $ 10.925 each .
Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. is the sole underwriter of the offering .
Net proceeds will be used for development , acquisition and ownership of existing and future projects , the company said .
Proceeds also will be used to fund an interest payment escrow account , to retire certain short-term borrowings and for working capital .
Philadelphia-based O' Brien owns and operates cogeneration and alternative fuel projects .
In trading yesterday on the American Stock Exchange , O' Brien closed at $ 9.25 , down 25 cents .
David Alexander and his computer are making sure that baseball fans at the stadium under construction in St. Petersburg , Fla. , will get a good view of the action .
An architect with Hellmuth , Obata & Kassabaum Inc. , the project 's designer , Mr. Alexander can call up an overhead plan of the stadium and then zero in on a specific section and seat .
The computer does the rest , displaying in seconds what used to take hours to calculate -- the location 's view of the field .
But ideal solutions to some basic problems remain elusive .
And with so much money and community pride at stake , there is considerable pressure on designers to find ways to get it right .
`` The multi-use stadium is the civic icon of the late 20th century , '' says Philip Bess , a Chicago architect .
`` It 's the equivalent of a cathedral , proof in the citizens ' minds that they 're world-class cities . ''
One problem architects are wrestling with is the awkward marriage between the rectangular gridiron and the baseball diamond .
Plans for a Phoenix , Ariz. , stadium address this with a design in which the end-zone stands and two wedged-shaped sections between the 10- and 20-yard lines can be pulled out , allowing the remaining stands to swing together .
To be truly flexible , enclosed stadiums must be usable for basketball , hockey and concerts as well .
But such versatility adds special requirements .
Because stadiums have so many seats , for example , basketball fans typically do n't feel pressed to buy season tickets , an important source of team revenue .
And basketball teams like a more intimate , rabid atmosphere than the stadiums allow , architects say .
Thus , some new designs feature moveable stands and false walls and ceilings that reduce the 60,000 or more stadium seats to 20,000 or fewer .
Architects are also simulating intimacy with sound-reflective panels .
Roofs have long been a headache .
Early , hard domes necessitated round stadiums for support -- an inconvenient shape for both baseball and football .
And critics snipe that they cost too much , leak and create a cavelike atmosphere .
Seattle 's concrete Kingdome is `` depressing , '' says Ronald Turner , an architect with Howard Needles Tammen & Bergendoff .
`` If you have a choice of going sailing or going into the dark kingdom , you 'll go sailing . ''
Air-supported fabric roofs , often made of Teflon-coated fiberglass , seemed to be the answer .
They cost an average $ 9 million -LRB- about half as much as hard domes -RRB- and let some sunlight in -- as much as 30 % with newer fabrics .
But heating costs are high , and fabric domes can collapse in winter if snow-melting machines fail .
Air pressure is another problem : At the Hoosierdome in Indianapolis , for example , only a few doors can be opened at a time or the roof will deflate .
And patrons are propelled out the exits by 45-mile-an-hour winds .
Enter the cable-supported fabric dome , which with insulation costs an average $ 13 million -- still about a third less than hard shells .
Designs for Phoenix , Cleveland , Toronto and San Antonio , Tex. , include the latest wrinkle in domes : retractability , which satisfies baseball fans ' craving for sunshine and football fans ' need for warmth .
Phoenix 's fabric dome will cost an estimated $ 13 million ; Toronto , with an especially complex concrete design , will shell out $ 90 million , according to some projections .
But not everyone raves about retractables .
`` Some -LRB- proposed designs -RRB- will n't work , and some will cost considerably more than projected , '' says David Geiger , a New York-based dome designer .
Before he died last year , John Waterbury of Iffland Kavanaugh Waterbury P.C. , designers of Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles and Shea Stadium in New York , produced perhaps the most radical idea for a multi-use stadium .
What if you laid the baseball field on top of the football field ? he wondered .
Then , when baseball season ended , the entire field could be lifted mechanically and hooked to the second deck , forming a domed football stadium .
So far , nobody has embraced the plan .
But , says Jerome Iffland , the firm 's president , `` someone will steal our idea eventually .
It 's a concept that 's got to be used . ''
Abitibi-Price Inc. , the world 's largest newsprint producer , said it plans to boost prices for standard newsprint sold in the U.S. by 7 % , to $ 610 -LRB- U.S. -RRB- a metric ton from $ 570 , effective July 1 .
The move by Toronto-based Abitibi-Price comes at a time of tightening newsprint supplies world-wide and just prior to the start of labor negotiations involving 30,000 unionized workers and more than 20 eastern Canadian paper producers , including Abitibi-Price .
`` It 's a disappointment and a surprise , '' Homer Taylor , president of Scripps-Howard Supply Co. , a Cincinnati-based unit of Scripps-Howard Newspapers , said of the planned price increase .
Most newspaper chains had n't budgeted for a price increase before Oct. 1 because they believed producers would first want a contract settlement , he said .
But Robert Johnson , senior vice president of Abitibi-Price Sales Corp. , a New York-based Abitibi-Price unit , said there is n't any link between the price increase and the labor talks .
`` We view these as two separate situations , '' he said .
Mr. Johnson said the price increase is `` driven by needs to improve our return on investment . ''
Abitibi-Price , which is a unit of Gulf Canada Corp. , and other major Eastern Canadian producers raised newsprint prices by 6.5 % in October , the first increase since 1984 .
In trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange yesterday Abitibi-Price closed at $ 42.25 -LRB- Canadian -RRB- a share , up $ 1.25 .
Guy Dufresne , senior group vice president at Montreal-based Consolidated-Bathurst Inc. , another big newsprint producer , said his company is `` studying the situation , '' noting that `` supply is tightening and demand is continuing to grow . ''
A spokesman for Great Lakes Forest Products Ltd. , Thunder Bay , Ontario , called Abitibi-Price 's plans `` good news '' but said the company has n't any plans at the moment for a price increase .
Earlier this week , Vancouver-based MacMillan Bloedel Ltd. announced a 7.5 % price rise for its U.S. customers , also effective July 1 .
With discounts taken into effect , its new price will rise to $ 552.90 -LRB- U.S. -RRB- a metric ton from $ 514.43 .
MacMillan Bloedel sells primarily to consumers in the western U.S. , where prices have been lower in recent years , while Abitibi-Price sells primarily in other regions .
Industry observers say the price increases come at a time of tightening newsprint supplies world-wide .
Aggravating the situation was an earthquake earlier this month in New Zealand that has halted output at a large newsprint mill operated by Fletcher Challenge Ltd. .
The closure is expected to result in diversion of some Canadian newsprint to Australia and Southeast Asia .
The Canadian Paperworkers Union last week selected Abitibi-Price as the target company in contract talks with eastern Canadian paper producers .
The union represents about 4,700 workers at 10 Abitibi-Price mills in Ontario , Quebec and Newfoundland .
The union is seeking a 7.1 % wage increase in the first year and 8 % in the second year of a two-year accord .
The current average wage rate is $ 14.10 -LRB- Canadian -RRB- an hour .
Formal talks are set to begin April 21 .
Willard Butcher , chairman of Chase Manhattan Bank , in the March issue of Manhattan Inc. :
When I joined the -LCB- banking -RCB- system in 1947 , banks had almost 70 % of the nation 's financial resources .
Today , we 've got about 30 % .
It is n't a question of whether banking will occur ; it will .
It 's a question of whether banking will be done by banks .
And I have never had it proved to me why banks are such bad bankers and everyone else is such a good banker. . . .
Of course I 'm an optimist .
But to be optimistic about the year 2050 is n't very helpful .
And that is why we as a bank are in the middle of trying to decide whether to remain a bank or whether to give up our banking charter .
British unemployment fell to a seasonally adjusted 11.1 % of the labor force in February from 11.3 % in January , the Department of Employment said in a provisional report .
The decline in the number of unemployed was the biggest ever .
February was the seventh consecutive month in which the number of jobless declined .
Before seasonal adjustment , the department said , the jobless rate stood at 11.7 % , down from 12.1 % a year earlier .
Lord Young , Britain 's employment secretary , said unemployment had fallen by nearly 150,000 people since last July .
`` There appears little doubt now that the monthly fall , which has been running at about 20,000 , will continue , '' he said .
DEP Corp. , a maker of personal-care products , said it sold the distribution rights for Doan 's Backache Pills to Ciba-Geigy Corp. , an Ardsley , N.Y. , pharmaceutical concern , for $ 34.4 million .
DEP obtained the rights to the Doan 's product line , which also includes a backache spray and a pain reliever , in December when it acquired Jeffrey Martin Inc. DEP said distribution of the Doan 's line represented annual revenue of about $ 14 million -- mainly from the pills .
DEP also said it plans to sell the remaining over-the-counter drug business obtained through the Jeffrey Martin acquisition .
Ciba-Geigy Corp. is a unit of Ciba-Geigy Ltd. of Switzerland .
The British government 's surprise decision to sell its remaining 32 % stake in British Petroleum Co. appears designed to raise needed revenue while avoiding controversy in advance of this year 's expected national election .
The sale also will likely further postpone the sale of state-owned concerns -- such as Britain 's water authorities -- that have been viewed as likely candidates for denationalization .
As previously reported , Margaret Thatcher 's Conservative government said Wednesday it plans to sell its BP stake , currently valued at the equivalent of more than $ 7.5 billion , in the year ending March 31 , 1988 .
Although the Tories earlier had indicated they planned to eventually sell the BP shares , few industry analysts expected the sale so soon .
Receipts from the sale would help the government stay on schedule in its recently accelerated denationalization program , under which it plans to sell assets valued at $ 8 billion in each of the next three years .
The government sold assets valued at $ 20 billion during its first eight years in office .
At the same time , the sale should be less controversial than the denationalization of an entire state-owned business .
Last July , the government postponed plans to denationalize the country 's water industry after some managers resisted the move and workers threatened lawsuits .
`` With an election coming , BP is noncontroversial , '' said Andrew Bain , an economist at Midland Bank PLC. `` Nobody is going to be uspet '' with the government for selling its remaining shares in the company .
The Treasury said yesterday that selling its stake in BP , which owns 55 % of Standard Oil Co. of the U.S. , will probably push back the sale of other state assets .
That 's because the $ 7.5 billion that the sale would generate almost meets the government 's goal of selling $ 8 billion of assets annually .
Britain 's water industry , electric utilities and British Steel Corp. have been among the candidates most often mentioned as denationalization targets .
The Treasury yesterday said the sale of the BP shares already had been taken into account in the budget , unveiled Tuesday , for the year starting April 1 .
That means the sale will n't lead to further tax cuts or reduce government borrowing .
The government said the BP sale would be `` subject to market conditions , '' but it did n't specify how or when the shares would be sold .
The sale presumably is contingent on the Conservative Party 's winning the next election .
The election must be held before June 1988 but is expected sometime this year .
The sale is expected to have little effect on BP itself .
The company said it welcomes the sale because it `` will clear up a number of uncertainties which have affected both the market 's attitude to BP and our own financial planning . ''
LONDON -- Rolls-Royce PLC , the state-owned aircraft engine maker , reported record profit for 1986 , thereby polishing its image just weeks before the government sells it to the public .
The company said net income rose 56 % , to the equivalent of $ 192.4 million from $ 123.5 million in 1985 .
Sales rose 13 % , to $ 2.89 billion from $ 2.57 billion .
Its civil-engine sector , where operating profit increased 88 % to $ 219.7 million from $ 117.1 million , was the major contributor to the improved results , the company said .
The public offering , to occur in late April or early May , is expected to raise more than $ 1.6 billion .
Rolls-Royce no longer has any relation to the car maker with the same name . -LRB- The car maker has been a Vickers PLC unit since 1971 . -RRB-
To keep the strategically important company in British hands , the government will limit foreign-held shares to 15 % of the total .
It also will require government approval for disposals of more than 25 % of the company 's assets or significant assets used for the nuclear business .
The government rescued Rolls-Royce from bankruptcy in 1971 .
Since then , the company has cut its work force almost in half , tightened up financial controls and improved productivity .
James Communications Inc. said it retained Waller Capital Corp. , an investment banking concern specializing in cable television , to sell the closely held cable company .
James , based in Bloomfield Hills , Mich. , has about 100,000 subscribers in systems in Georgia , Alabama , Mississippi , New York , Vermont , New Hampshire , Wisconsin and Iowa .
At current market prices , which range as high as $ 2,000 a subscriber , the company could fetch $ 180 million to $ 200 million , investment banking sources said .
James was formed in late 1985 by William R. James , formerly president of Capital Cities/ABC Inc. 's cable television division , and a group of institutional investors .
Every frequent air traveler can recite horror stories about interminably delayed or abruptly canceled flights .
The Federal Aviation Administration reports that a record number of flights were delayed last year at the nation 's 22 busiest airports .
The reasons for this post-deregulation mess are complex , but there is little question that it adds up to major frustration for air travelers .
This week the FAA has been taking another run at the extreme flight congestion that builds up around `` peak '' hours , or the day 's most popular travel times .
Meeting in Washington with more than 100 airlines , the agency is trying to arrange adjustments in summer flight schedules at seven of the more congested airports , such as Newark , Chicago 's O' Hare and Atlanta 's Hartsfield Airport .
The airlines participated in the FAA-initiated talks with great reluctance .
The carriers complained that coordination of schedules among rivals is inherently anti-competitive -LRB- as the Department of Transportation acknowledged by virtue of Secretary Elizabeth Dole 's offer of antitrust immunity to the airlines -RRB- , and only a step removed from re-regulation of the airline industry .
Moreover , airline executives say , the FAA 's actions are only a temporary solution .
In fact , similar discussions among the airlines in 1984 yielded only short-term results .
Schedule changes lasted six months and during that period delays were down .
But when airlines adjusted their schedules to respond to increased consumer demand for certain flights , delays increased .
There are two quick-fixes for this problem .
The airlines can stifle demand by raising fares , or the FAA can exercise its authority to restrict the number of flights particular airlines may offer at given times .
The hot competition among airlines makes fare-raising unlikely , so that leaves an FAA-decreed solution .
It is this possibility that worries the airlines .
Similar concerns were raised in a memorandum the FAA solicited from the Federal Trade Commission .
The FTC said the FAA 's action `` is likely to harm both competition and consumers . ''
It also warned that although the airlines were granted antitrust immunity solely to discuss scheduling , some might take advantage of the opportunity to collude on fares and service in individual markets .
Another prospect , the FTC warned , is that the FAA 's action ultimately might result in arbitrary cancellation of flights greater in value to consumers than some retained .
Now , in the middle of this mess , FAA Administrator Donald Engen has announced that he 's quitting this summer out of frustration over pressure on the agency 's budget and pressure from the Reagan administration to auction landing rights among the airlines .
We have argued here before that one good way to achieve less airport congestion and fewer flight delays is indeed to ration the most desired landing slots by price .
The FTC 's memorandum advised that the FAA `` impose additional limits on the number of slots during peak periods at the affected airports as needed , '' and that the agency then permit carriers to buy and sell the restricted slots .
Under such a rationing system , airlines would pay a premium for peak-hour landing slots -LRB- currently , there is no price differential for peak and nonpeak slots -RRB- .
The airlines would likely pass this premium on to peak-hour travelers .
Some would eventually opt for non-peak flights rather than pay higher peak-hour fares .
Airport congestion would eventually abate .
These problems notwithstanding , Americans have benefited greatly from deregulation of the airline industry .
More people are flying to more destinations at lower fares than even the most optimistic deregulators could have imagined in 1978 .
The challenge now is to create an air-travel management system appropriate to the level of consumer demand that obviously exists in the U.S. .
The impediments to such a system are formidable .
Airports tend to be viewed as public utilities .
Expanding their capacity runs smack into local rules governing land use , noise , flight patterns , curfews .
Debate drags on over privatizing air-traffic-control systems .
Large , small and new airlines fight among themselves over proposed changes .
In this atmosphere desperate people start grasping at re-regulation as the answer .
Re-regulation , however , is like saying there are too many cars , so let 's go back to the horse-pulled trolley system .
It will n't happen .
The crowded airline schedule is a problem requiring a large good-faith effort from both private and public parties .
For the near term , the FAA will serve as a catalyst in this process .
With Donald Engen 's decision to leave the agency , the Reagan administration has an opportunity to give the job to someone who has the instinct , skill and authority to give air travelers the same market benefits on the ground that they are now getting in the air .
THE EPISODE WAS the kind that makes grist for novels and movies .
A 40-year-old man suffering a severe liver disease had suddenly developed a life-threatening skin condition .
`` His skin was sloughing off all over his body , '' recalls Marshall M. Kaplan , the Tufts University gastroenterologist who had been tending the patient 's liver problems .
Cortisone was n't helping , `` so the question came up whether methotrexate would help , '' Dr. Kaplan says .
Methotrexate is an old anti-cancer drug that had been found to aid certain other skin conditions , but it also has a dangerous side effect -- liver damage .
The idea of using this drug in a man with a diseased liver was `` frightening , '' Dr. Kaplan says .
`` But if we did n't use it , there was a good chance he would die from the skin condition . ''
Balancing the risks , doctors began giving the man methotrexate .
`` We watched his blood tests -LRB- for signs of liver damage -RRB- , fully expecting them to get worse , '' Dr. Kaplan says .
Instead , not only did his skin condition clear up , but to the doctors ' astonishment , his liver began to improve .
Now , eight years later , he takes maintenance doses of methotrexate , and both his skin and liver are normal .
THIS EPISODE , recently published in Annals of Internal Medicine , marks another serendipitous incident in the strange history of methotrexate .
In these days when genetic engineering and molecular manipulation turn up new wonder drugs almost weekly , methotrexate stands out as a baffling technological anomaly .
In the 40 years since the drug was first synthesized , it has been alternately lauded as a treatment for a variety of human scourges and castigated as a poison whose risks are greater than the diseases it 's being used to treat .
Yet no one is quite sure how or why it does what it does .
The methotrexate story begins in the mid-1940s when the late Sidney Farber and his colleagues at Children 's Hospital in Boston were attempting the first use of chemicals in the treatment of acute childhood leukemia , then an invariably fatal blood cancer .
The cancer researchers , according to an oft-told story , had noticed a similarity between the leukemia and a certain anemia which was due to a deficiency of the vitamin folic acid .
This led them to treat the leukemia with folic acid .
To their horror , the folic acid accelerated the leukemia instead of retarding it .
This near-disaster , however , led them to try a second chemical , called aminopterin , that blocked the cancer cells ' use of folic acid .
In 1948 , in an historic research paper , the Boston researchers reported the first remissions of acute leukemia through chemotherapy .
Unfortunately , the remissions lasted only a few weeks or months .
The Boston discovery led chemists at Lederle Laboratories , the pharmaceutical subsidiary of American Cyanamid Co. , to synthesize an improved version of aminopterin they called a-methopterin , to which Lederle 's marketing people affixed the brand name , Methotrexate -LRB- the brand name has since slid into generic use -RRB- .
METHOTREXATE PROVED even better at bringing about remissions of acute lymphoblastic leukemia , and today it is one of the drugs achieving cures of leukemia in about 50 % of afflicted children .
By 1956 , cancer researchers reported another first : Women developing an unusual cancer of the placenta during pregnancy had been permanently cured by methotrexate , the first cancer ever cured by chemotherapy .
In the early 1960s , serendipity struck again .
A New York dermatologist reported instances of some patients being relieved of psoriasis , a chronic and severely disturbing skin disease , when treated with methotrexate .
This led William O' Brien and Roger Black at the National Institutes of Health to run a controlled trial on 21 psoriasis patients .
Not only did the skin disorder clear up in several patients but so did a type of arthritis that often accompanies psoriasis .
The scientists then reported a second trial showing that methotrexate produced remissions in some patients with rheumatoid arthritis , the most common form of the crippling disorder .
But , in treating psoriasis patients , the dangers of methotrexate became apparent .
In high doses and daily use , the drug can cause severe liver damage and sometimes a lung disorder .
IN SOME CANCER PATIENTS , doctors have worked out a unique `` rescue '' concept , giving a patient dangerously high doses of methotrexate to kill cancer cells and then shortly afterward administering an antidote to save normal tissues from its poisonous effects .
Methotrexate 's use in arthritis , at least for patients whose disease is n't helped by any other drug , is now being revived .
Researchers have treated several hundred arthritis patients with low doses of methotrexate given only once a week .
Anywhere from half to two-thirds of these patients improve ; some have remissions of their arthritis .
But while many arthritis specialists are using methotrexate in `` refractory '' patients , others shun it .
One is Dr. O' Brien , who did the first trial of methotrexate in arthritis and who is now a professor at the University of Virginia .
Because of its toxicity , he says , `` we do n't use it anymore here in Charlottesville . ''
Meanwhile , in Boston , Dr. Kaplan and his colleagues say they had a second patient with the same severe liver disease as the first but without the skin problem .
`` He was at his wits ' end , '' Dr. Kaplan says .
`` I thought of that first patient and said , ' If you 're a gambler and you want to try methotrexate , we 'll do it . ' ''
The patient 's liver is now normal .
A clinical trial of methotrexate in the liver disease , called primary sclerosis cholangitis , is now under way .
The Reagan administration is headed for another confrontation with Latin American debtors over its year-old effort to overhaul the Inter-American Development Bank .
When members of the 44-country lending organization gather in Miami this weekend for their annual meeting , the U.S. again will seek changes that effectively would give Washington the power to veto proposed IADB loans to member countries .
Washington argues that as the organization 's largest donor it should have such say , but Latin countries oppose the idea as politically intolerable .
While neither side expects to resolve the dispute , each will be able to air views they have been expressing for some time in private , occasionally pushing negotiations into a more serious phase .
There is quite a bit at stake for the 27-year-old development bank .
The Reagan administration has promised that if the organization 's members agree to the changes Washington is proposing , the U.S. will help finance a major expansion of lending resources to $ 20 billion over the next four years -- enough to make the institution a serious player in the effort to resolve the global debt problem .
If the members do n't go along , Washington will contribute only enough to support $ 11 billion in new lending during that period .
U.S. policy makers complain that the bank often grants loans for political reasons rather than on economic merits .
They also contend that the bank 's largely Latin staff is n't tough enough about compelling borrowing countries to correct deficiencies in their economic policies .
For the bank to assume a larger role in resolving the debt problem , U.S. critics say , it will have to become more like the World Bank or the International Monetary Fund , which usually insist that borrowing countries take specific steps to overhaul their economies before granting them new loans .
According to U.S. officials , the IADB 's inadequacies stem from one basic flaw in the bank 's charter : the borrowing countries themselves control the distribution of funds .
Unlike other international lending organizations , where weighted voting systems give the contributing countries a clear majority , the Inter-American Development Bank assigns 54 % of its voting power to Latin countries .
The U.S. has another 34.5 % and the rest is split among 15 other donor countries .
As it currently takes at least a 50 % vote to halt an IADB loan , the Latin countries can guarantee approval simply by voting as a bloc .
Washington wants to change the bank 's rules so that loans could be turned down by just a 35 % no vote .
That way , the U.S. , joined by any other industrial country , could veto loans it finds objectionable .
IADB staffers dispute criticisms that the organization is too lax , contending that Washington should n't try to force all other countries to follow the U.S. 's own economic model .
`` There are many ways to development , not just the one that 's in use here in the U.S. , '' says one official of the Washington-based organization .
Still , U.S. and Latin American negotiators have made substantial progress toward resolving their differences .
But the dispute over veto power has proved more thorny .
Latin governments , loathe to give up an historic prerogative , are willing to reduce the veto threshhold to 40 % of the vote , but they say it would cost them too much politically to accede to the full U.S. demand .
Most are under pressure at home to be more aggressive in standing up to the U.S. on economic and financial issues .
Brazil 's recent move to suspend interest payments on commercial bank loans has only revived regional pressures to defy creditors .
Moreover , other donor governments are n't supporting Washington 's veto demand .
Only Canada has offered even lukewarm backing .
Following lower-level negotiations tonight and tomorrow morning , Treasury Secretary James Baker is scheduled to address the bank 's annual meeting , which begins formally on Monday .
Treasury officials say Mr. Baker is likely to reiterate the U.S. position .
Both sides are running out of time to resolve the dispute .
The bank is about to exhaust its current four-year operating budget and will need more funds .
U.S. negotiators say the Reagan administration will have to decide within a few weeks how much Washington actually plans to contribute to the organization 's support .
`` We 're down to brinksmanship , '' a U.S. negotiator says .
Guinness PLC said it is suing Ernest Saunders , its former chairman and chief executive , and U.S. lawyer Thomas Ward , a Guinness outside director , to recover an $ 8.3 million payment for consulting work the British brewer says was never done .
A Guinness official said the company filed a writ in High Court in London against Mr. Saunders and Mr. Ward seeking the return of a payment made to Marketing & Acquisition Consultants Ltd. , or MAC , an offshore concern in the English Channel island of Jersey .
Guinness directors also have asked shareholders to remove Mr. Saunders and Mr. Ward from the board at the company 's annual meeting on May 27 .
Earlier this month , Guinness tried to recoup the money by suing MAC in Jersey .
That lawsuit alleged that Mr. Saunders and Mr. Ward had breached their corporate fiduciary duty by authorizing the payment .
MAC last week claimed in court documents that the payment covered legitimate services performed for Guinness by Mr. Ward .
Yesterday , a statement by Mr. Ward 's attorneys said the $ 8.3 million is `` in his possession on deposit in the United States '' less amounts used to pay taxes `` and certain expenditures . ''
The statement also contended that Guinness had refused his offer to put the money in escrow or to arbitrate his right to the money .
Mr. Ward 's relationship with MAC is n't clear .
But MAC previously was designated to receive some legal fees that Guinness owed Mr. Ward , Guinness sources have said .
Mr. Ward , a partner in the Washington , D.C. , law firm of Ward , Lazarus , Grow & Cihlar , declined to comment on the writ .
David Aufthauser , Mr. Ward 's Washington attorney , said : `` The legal action seems to relate to the press release '' about Mr. Ward 's possession of most of the money .
Mr. Saunders did n't return repeated telephone calls .
The MAC payment was part of $ 38 million that Guinness has said was disbursed possibly to help share buying in support of its successful $ 3.8 billion bid for Distillers Co. last year .
The British government is investigating whether Guinness 's shares were illegally propped to help it win the mainly stock bid .
Saudi Arabia has cut its oil production close to a record low level in the battle to keep oil prices up , according to oil industry sources .
Saudi production has fallen to about 2.5 million barrels a day , down nearly a million barrels a day from a month ago and close to its lowest-ever daily output of two million barrels in August 1985 , say sources among major U.S. customers for Saudi oil .
Oil production by most other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries , including Qatar , Nigeria , Iran , Libya and Algeria , has also fallen .
But the strongest source of resistance to oil company pressure to sell oil below the OPEC-mandated price of $ 18 a barrel seems to be Saudi Arabia .
`` Saudi Arabia 's King Fahd is by far the most prominent of OPEC leaders in the front line , '' notes Petrostrategies , a Paris-based trade publication .
`` In all its 25-year history , this episode of resistance and sacrifice is by far the strongest demonstration of solidarity by OPEC , '' the publication 's editor , Pierre Terzian , says in an interview here .
OPEC and industry sources confirm that the cartel is producing a little more than 14.5 million barrels a day , compared with an authorized OPEC ceiling of 15.8 million barrels a day .
Contributing to the shortfall appears to be unanimous OPEC resistance to sales of crude below the official price .
Accidental interruptions of production , such as the earthquake that has halted Ecuador 's entire oil output of 210,000 barrels a day , also have held down output .
Reliable sources said tiny Qatar has n't been able to sell more than 65,000 barrels a day of an authorized OPEC quota of 285,000 barrels a day for the month of April .
But a senior Qatari official , who asked not to be identified , said the country nevertheless will hold against all pressure `` because this is the political decision . ''
As a result , OPEC members are quickly devising plans to help their weaker members market oil in case the oil companies ' challenge continues to erode their patience .
Kuwait is reliably reported to be preparing to market Qatar 's oil through its vast network of refineries and distributors in Western Europe .
`` OPEC certainly seems to have a winning hand at the moment , '' says Steve Turner , an oil analyst with Wood , McKenzie & Co. , a brokerage firm in Edinburgh , Scotland .
He shares with other analysts and industry observers the view that OPEC 's low production and high resolve are forcing oil companies to run down their oil inventories sharply .
Some analysts think the drawdown is running as high as 3.5 million barrels a day .
Such a rate would eventually ease pressure on OPEC by forcing buyers to pay official prices to replenish supplies .
`` If OPEC gets through March they are out of the woods , '' adds Mr. Turner .
Trizec Corp. said it plans to raise $ 171.3 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- by offering five million class A voting shares at $ 34.25 each in Canada .
Trizec class A stock closed at $ 34.125 , down 12.5 cents , in Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday .
More than 103,000 shares moved .
The class B stock closed at $ 35 , up $ 1 .
Class B shares are convertible in Class A shares on a one-for-one basis .
Lead underwriter will be Dominion Securities Inc. and proceeds will be used for general purposes , the real estate company said .
Toronto-based Great Lakes Group Inc. , a merchant banker , plans to buy 3,750,000 of the shares from the underwriters after the closing of the public offering and to grant the underwriters an option to repurchase 150,000 of those shares , Trizec said .
At the end of the Oct. 31 fiscal year , Trizec had 43 million class A voting shares and 42.2 million class B shares outstanding .
Time Inc. said it intends to buy back and redeem about $ 250 million in securities in order to reduce the cost of its debt .
The publishing and cable television company intends to make a cash tender offer in the near future for $ 150 million of its 10.625 % notes due 1992 , but terms have n't been determined , it said .
Also , its Time-Life Overseas Finance Corp. N.V. subsidiary intends to redeem all $ 100 million of its 10.75 % notes due 1990 , Time said .
Time expects to fund the moves through one or more public issues of intermediate or long-term debt and expects to file a $ 500 million shelf registration of debt securities in the near future , partly for use in the refinancing , it said .
Assets of the nation 's 379 money market funds rose $ 43.4 million to $ 237.34 billion in the week ended Wednesday , the Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade association , said .
The gain was the fourth in five weeks .
Assets of 196 general purpose funds fell $ 245.6 million to $ 62.49 billion , and assets of 92 broker-dealer funds dropped $ 176.7 million to $ 108.79 billion .
Assets of 91 institutional funds gained $ 465.7 million to $ 66.06 billion .
The average seven-day yield for funds , in the week ended Tuesday , rose to 5.39 % from 5.35 % a week earlier , according to Donoghue 's Money Fund Report , a Holliston , Mass.-based newsletter .
The average 30-day yield for funds rose to 5.36 % from 5.34 % , and the average maturity of funds fell to 43 days from 44 days .
Banks , which compete with money funds , were paying an average yield of 5.15 % on their money market savings accounts in the week ended Wednesday , unchanged from the week before , according to Banxquote Online , a New York-based information service .
Bank yields were 5.66 % for six-month savings certificates of deposit , compared with 5.65 % the previous week .
Yields were 5.88 % for one-year bank savings CDs , compared with 5.87 % .
Seagram Co. posted a 19 % increase in net income for its fiscal fourth quarter , as profit from spirits and wine operations rose sharply from depressed year-earlier levels .
Net for the quarter ended Jan. 31 grew to $ 92.9 million , or 98 cents a share , from $ 78.3 million , or 82 cents a share , the year earlier .
The distiller said pre-tax operating profit rose 82 % to $ 27.7 million from $ 15.2 million for the quarter .
Sales increased 19 % to $ 1.04 billion from $ 870.4 million .
Profit from spirits and wine operations rose to $ 23.5 million from $ 104,000 .
A spokeswoman noted that year-earlier after-tax results were depressed by imposition of higher excise taxes .
The company 's results also were largely affected by results of Du Pont Co. , Wilmington , Del .
Seagram owns a 22.5 % stake in the large chemical and energy concern .
Equity in unremitted earnings of Du Pont fell 29 % to $ 29.3 million from $ 41.3 million , while dividend income rose slightly to $ 40.4 million from $ 37.9 million .
Seagram earlier this month agreed to sell several of its wine operations for about $ 200 million to Vintners International Co. , a new concern formed by the unit 's former president and other investors .
The sale involved Seagram 's moderately priced domestic brands .
The company said it is retaining more expensive wine brands .
For the full year , net rose 33 % to $ 423.5 million , or $ 4.45 a share , from $ 319.1 million , or $ 3.44 a share , mainly reflecting Du Pont 's sharply improved earnings .
Seagram 's sales rose 13 % to $ 3.34 billion from $ 2.97 billion .
Seagram 's unremitted earnings from Du Pont for the year more than doubled to $ 169.1 million from $ 75.7 million a year ago .
After-tax dividends rose to $ 154.1 million from $ 150.8 million .
Pre-tax operating profit for the year fell 10 % to $ 192.8 million from $ 214.7 million .
Profit from spirits and wine rose 3.6 % , however , to $ 102.8 million from $ 99.2 million .
Profit included nonrecurring charges of $ 35 million associated with the sale of several wine operations and a planned reorganization of spirits operations in the U.S. .
Much of the effect of the charges was offset by a related reduction of tax expense by $ 27.7 million .
Xerox Corp. , one of the last die-hard supporters of an American corporate presence in South Africa , finally succumbed to pressures here and abroad and said it will sell its South African unit .
Xerox said its 51 % -owned Rank Xerox unit , whose 49 % partner is Rank Organisation PLC , a Britain-based leisure and hotel company , will sell the local business to Altron Group , a big South African electronics firm .
Terms were n't disclosed for the sale , which is to be completed by May 1 .
The pullout culminates more than a year of agonizing at Xerox , which in December held off a final decision as executives searched for a new approach that might let them stay in the racially troubled land .
And the move is unlikely to ease the pressure from activists , who criticized Xerox 's plans yesterday to let the unit continue selling photocopiers in South Africa after its sale .
`` It 's a perfect example of a decision that basically pleases no one , '' David T. Kearns , Xerox chairman , said in an interview .
Nor does it please him .
Mr. Kearns was one of industry 's most vocal proponents of the notion that only by staying can companies help end apartheid and repression in South Africa .
His voice grew lonelier late last year when two other outspoken chairmen -- Roger B. Smith of General Motors Corp. and International Business Machines Corp. 's John F. Akers -- reversed course and pulled out .
Mr. Kearns said he still feels staying put is best for South Africa 's 23 million blacks .
But he now says leaving is what is best for Xerox .
`` It was clear things were continuing to deteriorate on all fronts , '' he said .
The nation 's economy and social climate were worsening ; pro-disinvestment groups ' criticism was rising ; and Xerox was beginning to lose sales in the U.S. to local governments that were banning contracts with companies doing business there .
The departure by Xerox , the 14th-largest U.S. employer in South Africa , comes at a critical time for U.S. firms .
The pace of pullouts is accelerating , as pressure groups that once praised any departure now say simply leaving is n't enough .
The Reagan administration 's patient approach toward the South African government has been all but dismissed , even by a Reagan-appointed advisory panel .
And a May 31 deadline looms for U.S. companies that follow the Sullivan Principles , fairness tenets that for 10 years provided a moral ground for profiting from sales in South Africa .
The Rev. Leon H. Sullivan , founder of the principles , has said he will urge U.S. companies to leave South Africa if apartheid has n't ended by May 31 -- a seemingly impossible prospect .
That might lead to waves of new withdrawals .
Xerox , based in Stamford , Conn. , became the 24th company to announce or complete a withdrawal in the first three months of this year .
That compares with 49 corporations in all of 1986 .
The Washington-based Investor Responsibility Research Center says 182 U.S. companies retain South African units and have n't announced shutdown plans ; the total was 267 companies less than a year ago .
The financial impact on Xerox will be puny -- the unit provided less than 1 % of Xerox 's $ 9.78 billion of annual sales .
Indeed , Xerox may have been more alarmed by the financial effects of staying .
Last fall Xerox lost out on a photocopier contract with the Pittsburgh school board , which would n't buy from South Africa-linked companies .
The lost sales were `` certainly a lot more than a few thousand dollars , '' Mr. Kearns said , `` and it is something we saw increasing '' unless Xerox pulled out .
But he conceded he still may lose sales to such cities as Los Angeles , which has even tougher rules excluding companies that let their products be sold in South Africa even though they have shed direct investments there .
Most U.S. companies retain distribution agreements with the units they leave behind .
Eastman Kodak Co. is one of the few that left and ended all product sales in South Africa .
Richard Knight of the American Committee on Africa said cities will `` see that Kodak is clean and Xerox is n't . ''
But Mr. Kearns countered that blocking all sales would leave workers without jobs and hurt the local units of customers Xerox supplies world-wide .
The criticism of Xerox comes despite the unusual efforts it made in pulling out .
It negotiated a promise from the buyer that the unit 's 800-plus employees will n't lose their jobs .
It also is forming a foundation run by black leaders that will spend $ 500,000 a year on social programs after Xerox leaves .
ECONOMIC GROWTH starts to gather steam , forecasters say .
Chase Econometrics puts GNP first-quarter growth at about a 2.5 % annual pace , up from the paltry 1.1 % in 1986 's fourth quarter ; Wharton Econometric Forecasting is somewhat more bullish .
Both say inventory building will help offset sluggish consumer outlays and weak capital spending .
White House economist Sprinkel sticks to his 3.2 % prediction for the year .
Some suggest that tax reform is causing short-term weakness in business investment , consumer spending and commercial construction .
National Association of Manufacturers economist Jerry Jasinowski sees a `` quite large '' negative effect for the first half of the year .
But public and private forecasters say that most of the problems are only temporary .
Officials say the chief question remains the impact of the dollar 's decline .
`` Trade is our bottom line , '' says Commerce Undersecretary Robert Ortner .
BUSH STILL STUMBLES in the '88 race , while Hart dominates the Democrats .
A new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll shows Bush 's GOP support plummeting to 28 % from 43 % last August ; Dole climbs to 23 % from 10 % .
Bush 's favorable ratings still exceed his negatives , but 54 % of the public think that being Reagan 's vice president has hurt his presidential prospects .
His hopes of breaking out of his political doldrums were further damaged by a `` 60 Minutes '' interview last weekend .
Democrat Hart , with 36 % , has four times more support than his nearest competitor , Jesse Jackson ; the poll shows Massachusetts Gov. Dukakis next with 5 % .
Among all voters , Hart beats both Bush and Dole and , by 41 % to 36 % , voters prefer a Democratic to a Republican president in 1988 .
But the Colorado Democrat 's leftover debt from 1984 still plagues him .
WARMING TREND ?
The U.S. seeks a thaw with North Korea .
The recent decision to let U.S. diplomats talk to North Korean counterparts followed intelligence reports that Pyongyang wants to break out of its international isolation .
The U.S. also feels pressure from China , which has improved its relations with Seoul and wants the U.S. to reciprocate .
Officials also hope to slow North Korea 's recent moves toward the Soviets and reduce chances for an Olympic boycott .
But South Korea balks at U.S. advice to respond more favorably to recent overtures .
It fears that the north is only trying to foment domestic unrest through the peace noises .
`` We 've warned the U.S. that it will n't get anywhere with North Korea , '' says a South Korean official .
BOTTOMING OUT ?
Federal regulators say their list of problem banks , which grew by one a day in 1986 , appears to be growing at about half that rate this year .
But major troubles remain in the oil states , and FDIC Chairman Seidman says that a record 200 or more banks could go under this year .
MEESE 'S TACTICS on judgeships draw fire from Senate GOP moderates .
They complain he is dragging his feet and trying to see that only highly conservative candidates are named .
Pennsylvania 's Heinz complains to chief of staff Baker , so far without results .
Some members also suspect Meese of torpedoing ex-Sen .
Gorton 's chances .
OFF AND RUNNING : The Brookings Institution 's Robert Reischauer is the early favorite to head the Congressional Budget Office .
But the search is on hold while Congress wrestles with the budget ; other candidates under consideration include congressional aides Van Ooms and Edward Gramlich , Brookings 's Joseph Pechman and Henry Aaron , and the Urban Institute 's Isabel Sawhill .
WELFARE OVERHAUL faces stiff political struggles , despite bipartisan agreement that changes are needed .
Divisions remain on such major issues as whether some welfare payments should be raised .
The administration expects easier agreement on proposals to set work requirements , which liberals may accept if support services such as child care are included .
DEMOCRATS JOSTLE over trade with an eye on the presidential race .
Hart resists calls for protectionism ; he opposed textile restrictions in the Senate last year and has signaled his refusal to embrace quotas .
But other presidential aspirants seek to woo labor with tough talk .
Biden would threaten to let the dollar slide , or even link trade to the presence of U.S. troops in Japan and Germany .
Babbitt , who once used National Guard troops in a mining strike , now proposes stiff tariffs for nations that do n't reduce their trade surpluses .
Dukakis does n't favor tariffs but says the U.S. may have to resort to `` tough stuff '' sometimes .
Gephardt hopes for a public fight over his stringent amendment to the Ways and Means trade bill .
Some say Gephardt 's posturing hampers the panel 's work .
`` If he were n't running for president , it would be easier to deal with him , '' says Democratic Rep. Gibbons .
MINOR MEMOS : Bad news , worse news : New Hampshire GOP Sen. Rudman says polls in his state show that presidential hopeful Alexander Haig `` is unknown , but he has strong negatives. '' . . .
Associate Attorney General Stephen Trott will perform with his old singing group , the Highwaymen , at a reunion concert .
The group had a gold record in 1961 , for `` Michael , Row the Boat Ashore. '' . . .
Asked how to pay for extra spending proposals , Speaker Wright suggests a request to the Sultan of Brunei .
Migrating Canada geese have always flown over the New York suburb of Greenwich , Conn. .
About a dozen years ago , many decided to become full-time residents .
Greenwich has water , meadows and bird-lovers who are generous with their gourmet bread crumbs .
But plagued by goose droppings on its beach , the town finally brought out its biggest gun : a yacht-club cannon .
The booms from blanks failed to budge the birds from some of America 's choicest real estate .
`` We have passed a law against feeding the birds now , but who 's going to arrest someone for feeding a goose ? '' says Greenwich 's equivalent of a mayor , First Selectman John B. Margenot Jr. .
As America 's corporate elite sees it , the birds know a good thing .
Of all the suburbs where top executives have flocked since World War II , none has attracted so many as this town of 60,000 , a 51-minute train ride from midtown Manhattan .
`` In terms of the number of chief executive officers of major companies who live there , no other place comes close , '' says Thomas J. Neff , president of the executive recruiters Spencer Stuart & Associates and himself a Greenwich resident .
The town today can claim -- besides such celebrities as David Stockman and Diana Ross -- current or recent chief executives of Exxon Corp. , Citicorp , General Electric Co. , American Express Co. , PepsiCo Inc. , GTE Corp. , Union Pacific Corp. , Combustion Engineering Inc. and others .
Greenwich is no idyllic retreat , no haven from sprawl , congestion , unhappiness , crime or drugs .
Neither is it Middletown , U.S.A. .
In large parts of Greenwich , the minimum lot size is four acres .
The median price of single-family houses sold there last year was $ 480,000 .
The local high school -- whose principal is called a headmaster -- has been ranked among the nation 's best .
It periodically sends its girls ' lacrosse team to play in England .
Yet 36 % of Greenwich 's high school seniors say they get drunk or high on alcohol once a week a more .
On the surface , big white neo-Colonial houses on vast lawns make this town look as if it might never change .
But Greenwich , like other executive towns , is changing .
For one thing , the affluent have become more so .
Membership in a single country club was once a luxury .
Now , many residents belong to two or even three .
`` The yacht club near us is only open in summer , so we belong to another one for winter entertainment , '' says the wife of a recently retired New York mining executive .
In Vermont , where they summer , the couple belong to yet another club .
Life in the clubs is changing , too .
Reflecting today 's exercise craze , strenuous sports such as tennis and squash are gaining ground fast , says John Moreland , general manager of the Greenwich Country Club .
Interest in gourmet dining is rising .
When the club recently scheduled a $ 200-a-couple dinner , it had to draw up a waiting list .
`` Ten years ago , this would n't have gone over , '' Mr. Moreland says .
Greenwich homeowners have plenty of assets , on paper at least , to cover their bills for pheasant terrine .
Soaring real estate values have seen to that .
Last year , one in seven houses sold there fetched more than $ 1 million , and one went for more than $ 11 million .
A service station owner says he recently sold his house there for $ 500,000 to build a better one .
Simple clapboard houses on ordinary city lots can still be found -- at $ 250,000 .
More Greenwichers than in the past have bought one or more `` second homes '' in New England , Florida , the Caribbean or New York City .
`` The person who used to have two houses now has four , '' says Carl W. Menk , chairman of Canny , Bowen Inc. , executive recruiters in New York .
The standard of living for children seems to have risen even more .
Instead of parking the kids with Grandma , parents take them to Europe ; Mr. Neff 's two sons are traveling with him to the Bahamas this spring and to England this summer .
About half the students at Greenwich High own or have access to a home computer , says David Quattrone , headmaster .
Girls ' lacrosse is n't the only vehicle for foreign adventure .
The school 's idea of a Western Civilization class trip is a yearly pilgrimage to France , Italy or Greece , and about a third of the class goes .
Of 700 seniors , 500 have parking permits , according to Mr. Quattrone .
But , he adds , `` only a few '' have Mercedes-Benzes or BMWs .
`` Kids here can grow up with an unbalanced view of what the world is like , '' says Stephen Brecher , partner in the accounting firm of Peat , Marwick , Mitchell & Co. in New York .
But like many parents there , he says the quality of the school system was a `` key reason '' he moved to Greenwich .
In fact , executive suburbs such as Greenwich seem to be holding their coveted position in U.S. education .
A few years ago , a survey of college admissions officers and high school principals ranked the high school there in the nation 's top 12 .
About a quarter of the students qualify for advanced college placement in at least one subject .
Around 200 of the high school students a year take calculus , commonly a college-level course , Mr. Quattrone says .
Teachers earn as much as $ 45,000 a year , and their classes average only 20 students each .
But about a quarter of the town 's students attend private schools .
At the Brunswick School , a boys ' day school , mandatory Latin starts in the seventh grade .
Many students take calculus there , too .
Students are concerned with doing well .
But many suffer from `` fear that they will n't be able to match their parents ' achievements , '' says Norman A. Pedersen , headmaster of Brunswick .
`` The parents do n't have to say a word , '' he says .
`` It 's in the culture . ''
The pressure to perform contributes to teenage drinking and drug-taking , some Greenwichers say .
Others point to busy parents ' frequent absences for business or pleasure .
`` The party scene revolves around houses where parents are absent for the weekend , '' Mr. Quattrone says .
Whatever the causes , the problems worry Greenwich .
In a poll of 4,355 youngsters three years ago , 15 % of the high school seniors -- and 4 % of the seventh graders -- said they used marijuana at least once a week .
Moreover , 57 % of seniors and 12 % of eighth-graders said they drank at least once a week .
Five percent of the town 's eighth-graders said they were getting drunk or high on liquor at least once a week .
One parent recalls a high school student so drunk he passed out in class -- at 10 a.m. .
In a thriving volunteer program called Safe Rides , teen-agers give rides to other youngsters too drunk to drive .
`` You just can n't overestimate the problem , '' says the Rev. John W. Bishop , rector of Christ Episcopal Church .
But the youngsters are n't alone in their problem .
An Alcoholics Anonymous group that meets at the church Friday evenings is so packed `` you can n't find a parking place , '' Father Bishop says .
In at least one important way , the pressure on adults is easing significantly in towns such as Greenwich .
As more companies move to the suburbs , hundreds of executives are putting the train ride to the city behind them .
`` Ten years ago , the bulk of people who commuted went to New York , '' says Mr. Moreland , the country club manager .
`` Now , more than half commute to towns in the area . ''
Life also is changing in other ways .
Even among women in their 50s who are married to senior executives , about a quarter now hold jobs , Father Bishop estimates .
And of Greenwich women in their 30s and 40s married to executives , probably 60 % to 70 % have jobs , he says .
`` After people ask you what you are up to 750 times , you think , ' Now I have to be up to something , ' '' says Cecie Munkenbeck , wife of a corporate executive who started a landscape design career in her late 50s .
The environmental movement is thriving .
If there is one thing that America 's premier corporate bedroom does n't want , it seems to be more business .
In recent years , several companies , such as Chesebrough-Pond 's Inc. , have moved their headquarters to Greenwich or nearby towns .
To try to hold down congestion , Greenwich imposed two moratoriums on office building in the past decade ; and after each one was lifted , restrictions were tightened .
`` My biggest source of complaints is expansion of office buildings , '' Mr. Margenot , the first selectman , says .
Now , Greenwich is fighting the proposed expansion of a corporate headquarters just across the city line in Stamford .
Workers driving to the office crowd a Greenwich street , residents say .
Some even propose making the street one-way : away from the office in the morning , toward it in the afternoon .
In the long run , another change now taking place may become the most significant one : The people of Greenwich are becoming more diverse .
As in some other suburbs favored by corporate elites , many residents years ago resisted selling their homes to Jews .
Even today , many country clubs have few Jewish members .
But Greenwich 's Jewish population has grown to between 4,000 and 5,000 -- triple the figure of 20 years ago , says Rabbi Hillel Silverman , leader of a Jewish congregation there .
He says Jews no longer encounter problems buying homes in Greenwich .
At Greenwich High School , minority-group enrollment , about equally divided among black , Hispanic and Asian students , has climbed to 10 % of the student body from 6.5 % in 1980 , Mr. Quattrone says .
The minorities ' representation in the total town population is smaller but still significant .
Many descendants of black servants live in modest Greenwich frame houses , and a few more middle-class blacks are moving in .
But as real estate prices rise , black and white residents are coming to share a fear that their children will n't live as adults in the kind of town they knew as children .
Nancy C. Brown , a black town official whose husband 's family has lived there for three generations , says her son `` would love to live in Greenwich . ''
The son , a computer graphics artist , has bought a house in nearby -- but less expensive -- Stamford .
`` There 's no question about it , '' she says , `` people have a real fear of being squeezed out . ''
Mr. Ricklefs , based in The Wall Street Journal 's New York bureau , is a national correspondent .
Genex Corp. said it recruited Gary E. Frashier as president and chief executive officer in an effort to `` improve the image '' of the struggling biotechnology concern .
Mr. Frashier , 50 years old , has been chairman and chief executive officer of Continental Water Systems Corp. , a San Antonio , Texas-based unit of Olin Corp. , which produces ultra-pure water for scientific use .
He succeeds J. Leslie Glick , 46 , who resigned in January at the behest of Genex 's chairman and largest stockholder , Robert F. Johnson .
Genex hopes Mr. Frashier can restructure the company by shedding some lackluster operations and pushing for new products .
`` He has the kind of commercial savvy we need , '' said a company official .
`` He understands the industrial markets we serve . ''
Under Mr. Glick , Genex had pinned most of its hopes on Proto , an enzyme-based drain cleaner that is n't corrosive .
That Proto strategy had been to build a broad customer base among hospitals , colleges , restaurants and various other institutions .
But Mr. Frashier considers that approach too fragmented to be effective .
`` I do n't think cleaning products are the future for Genex , '' he said .
Genex has held talks with several companies about selling the Proto license , Mr. Frashier said , but he declined to identify any prospective buyers .
Genex has been floundering since 1985 , when it lost a big contract to supply raw materials for aspartame , an artificial sweetener made by Monsanto Co. 's G.D. Searle & Co. unit .
Sales to Searle had accounted for 58 % of Genex 's annual revenue .
The loss of the contract forced Genex to dismiss 40 % of its work force and post a $ 15.9 million loss that year .
For the first nine months of 1986 , Genex reported a loss of $ 2.4 million .
Earlier this month , the company arranged a $ 4 million line of credit with four venture-capital groups .
Mr. Frashier is betting that Genex 's new `` affinity '' proteins still under development will have greater commercial success .
These proteins bind tightly to specific molecules , offering the prospect of such applications as the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and the separation and purification of materials .
In addition , Mr. Frashier will push for development of a line of protein-based adhesive and coating products .
`` I think our chances of commercial success are greater in these areas -LRB- than in cleaning products -RRB- , though we have to do it carefully and thoroughly , '' Mr. Frashier said .
A chemical engineer by training , Mr. Frashier is a former executive of Loctite Corp. , an adhesives maker , and once headed three divisions of Millipore Corp. , a maker of purification and separation products .
In 1984 , he organized a management buyout of one of those divisions , Continental Water Systems , which Olin acquired recently .
Mr. Frashier , who also was named a director at Genex , does n't expect any quick fixes at the company .
`` I would n't call myself a turnaround specialist , '' he said .
`` I plan to be here for the long haul . ''
Most top executives have a little weekend place where they can escape the pressures of the office .
Raul Gardini 's retreat is a dozen-room `` palazzo '' built in 1487 on Venice 's Grand Canal , just a gondola 's ride from St. Mark 's Square .
Nouveau this is not .
The silver-haired , lightly tanned Mr. Gardini , chairman of Italy 's Ferruzzi Group , entertains a visitor at Ca' Dario in a room that glows in a riot of 17th-century and 18th-century furniture , a 19th-century copy of a 15th-century ceramic stove and a Murano glass chandelier .
Pouring 10-year-old brandy from a crystal decanter , Mr. Gardini shares his thoughts on his work style .
`` I work as long as I need to , but not for the sake of working , '' he says .
Ferruzzi , with interests in sugar , chemical and agricultural businesses , is Italy 's third largest private company and an increasing power in European industry .
It is an enterprise with $ 8 billion a year in sales and 15,000 employees .
It also is one that the 52-year-old Mr. Gardini manages to escape from -- Venice is some 80 miles from his office and principal home in Ravennan -- early every weekend .
There 's a telephone in the wood-paneled elevator that serves Ca' Dario 's wood-paneled dining room , but Mr. Gardini gives the distinct impression that any calls had better be important .
`` I trust my managers , '' he says .
`` I leave them to do their jobs .
Management is people , and what counts is results . ''
Executives everywhere value results .
But European executives such as Mr. Gardini , more than their American counterparts , also value a style that enables them to imbue their enterprises with their personalities , to revel in their culture and history , to take their weekends and four or five weeks of vacation a year and still get the job done .
`` The American executive is probably harder working than the Italian or French one , '' says Egon Zehnder , an international management consultant based in Zurich .
`` It 's rare to see a top American executive take more than two weeks vacation straight .
But you can n't reach anybody in August in France or Italy . ''
To Mr. Zehnder the main difference between American and Italian executives lies in their imagination and intuition .
`` The American is a well-structured individual , knows the rules , his limitations and his job description , and acts accordingly , '' Mr. Zehnder says .
`` The Italian probably does n't have a job description , and if he does he does n't pay any attention to it . ''
Although individual executives often defy national stereotypes , experience shows that a certain reality underlies them .
The stereotypes class German executives as strict followers of the rules , formal and correct to the point of coolness with employees and clients .
Swiss executives also adhere to the rules but smile occasionally .
The French honor some rules , smile and make sure the wine is properly served at lunch .
But the Italians , ah . . . .
In Italy , says Mr. Zehnder , `` The emotion is all part of the show .
The boss can blow his top and the relationship does n't suffer .
In terms of a relaxed , informal atmosphere in the office it 's probably closest to the U.S. , except that nobody in Italy uses first names . ''
These days in Italy the stereotype is bending a little , and Mr. Gardini prides himself on being part of the vanguard of a new breed of professional manager , not at all a part of the `` establishment , '' the few old families that still run much of Italian industry .
Born into a Ravenna farming family , Mr. Gardini studied agricultural science in school and joined Ferruzzi in 1955 .
Two years later , he married the daughter of the firm 's founder , Serafino Ferruzzi .
At the time , the agricultural firm 's affairs were cloaked in a tradition of secrecy and reticence .
Its recent purchase of a 25 % interest in Montedison , the publicly traded chemical giant , has changed that .
Ferruzzi has muscled its way into the industrial establishment , and the mystery that surrounded the firm has begun to dissolve .
The company finally created a public relations department , for example .
Several affiliates are now publicly traded and must disclose their finances .
Mr. Gardini , thrust into public view , often is being referred to as Italy 's third industrial titan , joining Fiat 's Gianni Agnelli and Olivetti 's Carlo De Benedetti .
While their wealth still may exceed his , Mr. Gardini certainly has become one of the tiny fraction of Italians whose income would make them multimillionaires anywhere .
The senior titans , Messrs .
Agnelli and De Benedetti , spend a lot of their off-hours at seminars and colloquiums , expounding on their management philosophy and world view .
Mr. Gardini shuns such affairs , preferring to curl up with a good book at Ca' Dario .
His reading centers on agriculture and sports , but he also tackles Faulkner , Dos Passos and Hemingway , in translation .
He is a fervent duck hunter .
Unlike most other top executives in Italy , Mr. Gardini does n't speak English , though he is fluent in French .
He also has managed to avoid being pigeonholed and nicknamed by the media .
Mr. Agnelli is `` the Lawyer . ''
Mr. De Benedetti is `` the Engineer . ''
Mr. Gardini has been called `` the Farmer '' and `` the Pharaoh , '' the latter for reasons that have vaguely to do with his financial ability , but neither epithet has stuck .
Mr. Gardini smiles broadly over that .
`` I 'm delighted that I can n't be categorized , '' he says .
`` I 'm different . ''
He is different , too , in his approach to running the show .
Mr. Agnelli , Fiat 's patriarch , leaves no doubt as to who is in charge of all aspects of the business .
A show of control is less important to Mr. Gardini .
While he seems totally self-assured , he can also be reticent .
He is more charming than charismatic .
`` People here always are saying that I 'm the new boss of this company or that company that we acquire , '' Mr. Gardini says , tapping his eighth Winston of the evening into a crystal ashtray , his right eyelid drooping almost shut .
`` I 'm not the boss at all .
The managers are the bosses .
They report to me , sure , but the day-to-day concerns are theirs , not mine . ''
The executive says he generally keeps his dealings confined to a core group of 10 or so executives at the Ravenna headquarters , which is located in Serafino Ferruzzi 's old home .
He prefers to visit his executives in their offices , not summon them to his , and when he visits Ferruzzi facilities he has no special office set aside for himself .
`` Just give me a chair and I can get done what I need to , '' he says .
Mr. Gardini has dealt with American executives .
He seems to differ most from them in his longer-term thinking , which envisions the distant past as well as the distant future .
He shudders at the image of a U.S. executive at a chrome-topped desk in a steel and glass skyscraper `` with the computer screen flashing three-month projections . ''
He says : `` It 's all too short-term in the U.S. Nothing connects . ''
During weekends at Ca' Dario -- and some weekday mornings before work , when he arises at 6 a.m. to stroll to the office at 8 -- Mr. Gardini enjoys the luxury of simply thinking .
Europe 's business future lies in pan-European companies , Mr. Gardini believes , and he is trying to make Ferruzzi one of them .
It already owns Beghin-Say , the French sugar maker . -LRB- Ferruzzi was recently blocked in its bid for control of S&W Berisford Ltd. , parent of British Sugar Corp. , which would have made the Italian company the world 's biggest sugar producer , with 25 % of the European market . -RRB-
Pan-European companies such as that , Mr. Gardini believes , will be big enough competitors to play in the same league with American and Japanese industrial giants .
He also thinks about taking Ferruzzi public .
Sooner or later , he says , it must become publicly held .
As Mr. Gardini talks , the weekend draws to a close .
He hops into Ca' Dario 's motor launch for the 30-minute ride to Venice 's airport , where Ferruzzi 's nine-seater jet takes him to Paris for a business meeting .
`` We 've got to think wider and broader , not just Italian , '' he says during the flight .
`` That goes for cultural and philosophical interests , not just business . ''
For instance , Mr. Gardini says , he is worried increasingly by pollution in Europe and the need to find new solutions , rather than , as in the past , export waste down rivers or out smokestacks to drift across borders .
Ferruzzi has invested heavily in ethanol plants , including one that just opened in Louisiana , which turn surplus grains and sugar into a gasoline additive that replaces lead .
If ethanol catches on , it would be profitable as well as ecologically sound .
Beyond ethanol , Mr. Gardini also expounds thoughtfully and passionately on the need to solve North-South tensions while continuing to improve agricultural productivity .
He worries about South America , which he calls `` a real disaster , '' and about agricultural trade tensions between the U.S. and Europe , which he calls `` a real war . ''
These problems must be solved `` by heads '' -- he taps his -- `` not fists . ''
He talks of the `` new agriculture , '' a variation of the `` Green Revolution , '' involving different crops for different needs .
Ferruzzi , for its part , single-handedly launched soybean production in Italy and is trying to start a cotton-growing industry there .
`` These , '' he says , `` are the sorts of things that mean something . ''
Mr. Revzin is The Wall Street Journal 's Paris bureau chief .
General Motors Corp. said it has extended to April 6 the rebates it is offering on Chevrolet models .
The incentive program , which involves rebates of as much as $ 1,000 , was announced Jan. 23 and was to expire March 11 .
The program was extended to March 31 and then to April 6 .
GM said it decided to extend its program after Ford Motor Co. extended incentives on some of its models to April 6 .
Aluminum Co. of America said it signed a letter of intent to sell its American Powdered Metals Co. unit to R.W. Technology Inc. Terms were n't disclosed .
The unit , which has about 100 employees , operates two plants .
Alcoa said it expects to complete the sale in early May .
The unit makes metal parts for several industries , including autos and appliances .
Both the unit and R.W. Technology are based in Cheshire , Conn. .
American Electric Power Co. said its Ohio Power Co. unit will redeem 40,000 of the 177,760 shares outstanding of its Series A 14 % cumulative preferred stock .
The Canton-based electric utility will redeem the shares June 1 at $ 100 a share .
Redemption of 20,000 shares is being made under terms of the sinking fund established for retirement of the series , while the remaining 20,000 shares are being redeemed under the company 's non-cumulative option .
Bombay Palace Restaurants Inc. and Lifestyle Restaurants Inc. amended their merger agreement , reducing to about $ 7.5 million from $ 9 million the amount that Bombay Palace will pay for Lifestyle .
Under the amended accord , Bombay Palace will offer one share of its common stock for every six Lifestyle shares outstanding .
The initial pact , signed Feb. 19 , called for a 1-for-5 ratio .
Bombay Palace , which owns and operates Indian restaurants , said it reduced the offer after closer examination of past performance and prospects for Lifestyle , which operates Beefsteak Charlie 's restaurants .
Both companies are based here .
Lifestyle officials could n't be reached for comment .
Also , Lifestyle will pay $ 575 plus accrued interest for each of its 13 % convertible subordinated debentures instead of the $ 550 plus accrued interest it had initially offered .
The offer ends April 14 .
The transaction remains subject to several conditions , including approval of Lifestyle 's holders , a favorable opinion from Lifestyle 's investment banker , and certain regulatory consents .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , Bombay Palace closed at $ 7.875 , down 12.5 cents .
In American Stock Exchange composite trading , Lifestyle closed at 93.75 cents , down 18.75 cents .
`` You know , Phil , there are times in a man 's career when . . .
I mean , it 's always important to consider your options , and I think it 's more and more important in your career now .
You know , Phil , there are a lot of reasons for it , and I guess I 'm not saying this very well , and as a matter of fact , I 'm operating on orders from on high -- but I think you should accelerate the process of keeping your options open .
Decisions are being made , if you know what I mean .
`` Listen , Phil , if you want to continue this , let 's go have a drink .
But I 'll tell you now , you 've been loyal to us for 15 years , that 's real loyalty , and I know this is tough .
But as strange as it may seem , Phil , just remember this is the first day of the rest of your life .
Really , that 's all I have to say , except that while this is an ending , it 's not like an ending-ending , you know .
You 'll get your checks for a while , at least .
Look , this is Friday .
On Monday , I 'll see Personnel and find out just how long you 'll get 'em . ''
By now , Phil may have caught the drift .
He 's being fired by his well-intentioned superior -- in a mock firing staged by Steven G. Harrison , a New York outplacement consultant .
It 's a sloppy firing that a beginning firer can easily manage .
But the supreme test of executive skill is firing with grace .
It happens to be the most dreaded test of executive skill , too .
It 's so shunned that although most managers going up the ladder are occasionally required to fire , once having ascended to the top they delegate the job .
Andrew Sherwood , a New York management consultant , says that only about 5 % of chief executives do their own firing .
`` These are people who are compulsive builders , '' he says .
`` They like acquiring companies , making profits go up , and recruiting people .
Firing is n't what they 're emotionally geared for .
They find it repugnant . ''
Peter Lewis , chairman and chief executive officer of Progressive Insurance Co. in Cleveland , says that firing his president of 13 years in 1983 `` was tougher than divorcing my wife . ''
`` Fire '' is a four-letter word , and the implications are n't lost on most executives .
`` We ought to get that word out of the lexicon , '' says A. Robert Abboud , former chairman of First Chicago Corp. .
`` It 's a crudity . ''
The word crept into common usage about 100 years ago as a pun on `` discharge . ''
By now , `` discharge '' has become a euphemism , along with newer ones like `` terminate , '' `` dismiss , '' and `` let go . ''
Sooner or later , no doubt , unwanted employees will simply be `` outplaced . ''
Humor is said to succeed by exposing frightening or indelicate realities of the human condition in the form of hyperbole , or slapstick .
Cartoonist Chic Young and his son and successor , Dean Young , made the firing scenes in their comic strip , `` Blondie , '' a part of American folklore .
Firing is a way of life at Dithers & Co. , where Julius C. Dithers , founder of the construction concern , has axed Dagwood Bumstead hundreds of times over the years .
Mr. Dithers 's style is to creep up on Dagwood , who is often either tardy or asleep at work , and yell in his ear .
Then he follows up with a swift kick in the pants , or he literally tosses Dagwood out of the office .
It hardly needs saying that no one in American business fires quite like Mr. Dithers .
But , says Dean Young , `` A lot of people tell me he 's the quintessential boss . ''
The reason is simple : If `` fire '' is , as Mr. Abboud says , a `` crudity , '' firing is a hostile act ; Mr. Dithers shows just how hostile .
Firing threatens an employee and his family with the loss of their livelihood .
It illuminates a grim fact that the employee is viewed as an economic factor , and a not very productive one at that .
Never is it a joy .
Firing with grace -- with style -- takes all that into account but minimizes the consequences that lie within the power of the employer to manage .
Simple kindness may move employers to master the art of firing .
But there are other motives .
The way an employee is fired affects the motivation and morale of remaining employees , as well as potential employees .
It may damage the company 's reputation with customers who deal with the fired employee .
It may result in expensive litigation .
It may also affect the company 's reputation among shareholders and others .
Mr. Abboud says that tactful firing requires `` a sense of artistry and maybe a little guile . ''
At First Chicago , he says , `` I was sometimes guilty of not gilding the lily , of coming right to the heart of the matter . ''
Yet his directness earned him a reputation for abrasiveness .
He himself was forced to resign as First Chicago 's chairman at a board meeting in 1980 .
To avoid brutality , some executives , like Phil 's superior , become too oblique when firing .
`` I wrote a note -LRB- firing -RRB- one of my headquarters workers whose job had been eliminated by a new computer .
But she did n't catch on in the slightest , '' says C. Robertson Trowbridge , president of Yankee Publishing Inc. , in Dublin , N.H. .
`` Two weeks later she was still there . ''
Mr. Trowbridge violated one rule of firing by doing it in writing rather than in person .
But he observes two other rules to make firing easier .
For one , he does n't hire friends or relatives of friends .
He once had to fire the wife of a man who played in a band with him on weekends .
`` You do n't want to alienate your clarinet player , '' he says .
Second , he does n't fire on Friday .
`` I do n't want to wonder all weekend how he 's taking it at his home , '' he says .
`` It 's better to do it on Monday , and give him the whole week to chase down his pals and pick up on some new leads . ''
Others say Tuesday is better .
If a firing is scheduled for Monday , the boss is still likely to spend all weekend fretting over the prospect -- and the boss 's morale is important , too .
Half an hour before lunchtime is probably the most propitious time , says Mr. Harrison , who is president of Lee Hecht Harrison Inc. in New York .
That 's because the employee will probably want to leave the office for a while afterward .
Mr. Harrison 's firm has prepared a brochure called `` Termination Guidelines : How to Avoid the Pitfalls . ''
It stresses planning .
Before firing , for example , the employer should write a letter explaining the employee 's separation benefits ; the shock of being fired is likely to obliterate or garble the explanation he gets during his firing .
The employer should give the employee the letter immediately after the firing .
For most executives , the hardest thing is what to say .
Mr. Harrison suggests that Phil 's boss should have said something like this :
`` Phil , we have reached a decision , although it is not the happiest .
Effective now , you are no longer employed here .
`` Some of the reasons you already know .
But the important thing now is what comes next .
We 'll give you help in getting employment .
Just because it did n't work out here does n't mean it will n't work out elsewhere .
I 'm giving you a paper explaining your benefits , including salary continuation and outplacement counseling .
You will have about four months ' salary , including vacation time , and your medical benefits will continue while you 're on salary . ''
Some executives would rather begin by reciting the employee 's virtues and recalling his contributions to the company .
But one executive who tried that says the `` firee '' interrupted him to ask for a raise .
`` You must first tell the person outright that this talk is n't to discuss whether he 's leaving but the circumstances of his departure , '' says Charles C. Jett , a Chicago executive recruiter .
Above all , Mr. Harrison says , the person doing the firing should avoid buckpassing -LRB- `` I 'm operating on orders from on high '' -RRB- and platitudes -LRB- `` This is the first day of the rest of your life . '' -RRB-
Still , says Daniel T. Carroll , former president and chief executive officer of Hoover Universal Inc. , in Ann Arbor , Mich. , it 's never easy .
`` You can teach what happens in a firing episode , '' he says .
`` But each one is so different that the advice may be misleading . ''
Mr. Carroll himself was fired from Hoover , now a subsidiary of Johnson Controls Inc. , Milwaukee , in 1982 .
`` It was very brief , '' he says .
`` The directors did n't want to go in the direction I wanted .
They asked for my resignation . ''
Today he is his own boss as an independent consultant in Ann Arbor .
`` There 's no one here to fire me , '' he says .
Mr. Johnson is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal 's Chicago bureau .
Amcast Industrial Corp. said it sold its Newnam division to a new company formed by employees .
The purchase price was n't disclosed .
The sale consists of an Amcast plant in Kendallville , Ind. , with about 300 employees .
Amcast , a maker of metal cast products , said the sale is a result of its decision to exit the gray iron castings business .
The plant makes castings for the auto and commercial air conditioning and refrigeration industries .
L.W. Ladehoff , Amcast chairman and chief executive officer , said the division was marginally profitable .
It represented about 8 % of Amcast 's $ 229 million in sales in its fiscal year ended Aug. 31 .
Prudential Insurance Co. of America sold seven office and showroom buildings totaling 400,000 square feet of space and 25 acres of land in Miami 's Airport Corporate Center to Tishman Speyer Properties for more than $ 30 million .
Only one woman heads a Fortune 500 company today .
And Katharine Graham of the Washington Post Co. inherited the job , which both her father and her husband held .
Soon , however , Fortune 500 directors may be turning more and more to women when they tap new chief executive officers .
`` It 's inevitable , '' says Rand Corp. economist James P. Smith .
`` Large numbers of women are in the middle-management pipeline now , and in 10 years you 'll see far more than one in the CEO ranks . ''
Executive women on the rise are choosing untraditional routes to the top .
Instead of climbing a single corporate ladder rung by rung , some women are zigzagging their way higher , moving from company to company , industry to industry or from the private sector to public service and back again .
Others are departing from the usual big business management routes to nurture -- or acquire -- companies of their own .
And some women develop so much expertise in new , technology-linked fields that they can n't be overlooked .
Here are five of the women who , experts say , stand a better-than-even chance of becoming Fortune 500 chief executives by 1997 :
Vice President , Operations , Apple Computer Inc. .
Her dream was to run a factory and combine `` the best manufacturing technology with the best people-management . ''
When she joined Apple Computer Inc. in 1981 as controller of the Macintosh division , she struck a pact with company founder Steven Jobs to let her run the new Macintosh plant if she built the best finance team in the industry .
Today , 34-year-old Deborah A. Coleman is known throughout Silicon Valley as a high-technology manufacturing wizard .
At Apple 's Fremont , Calif. , Macintosh plant , where several of her predecessors had been fired , she ended production havoc in six months -- eliminating computer-driven equipment that was n't `` people friendly , '' slashing inventory and boosting productivity .
`` A lot of what I did was common sense , '' says Ms. Coleman , who routinely pulled everyone in the plant together to set monthly goals and , as she puts it , `` foster a shared vision . ''
As a result , assembly line workers agreed to work 12-hour shifts at times to meet certain production schedules , and the labor rate was reduced to less than 30 minutes for each Macintosh .
Promoted to vice president of manufacturing in 1985 , Ms. Coleman promptly reduced Apple 's inventory 37 % , introduced new delivery schedules and cut the number of vendors the company uses more than one-third , to less than 300 .
Currently in charge of Apple 's plants in Ireland , Singapore and California , the single Ms. Coleman , who holds an M.B.A. from Stanford University , hopes to `` work myself out of this job within two years . ''
She predicts that as Apple grows , the company will be reorganized into separate business units , `` and I would n't mind running one of those major businesses . ''
Chairman and CEO-Elect , Banc One -- Cleveland Unit .
She has moved from the private sector to public service and back again , jumping several management rungs each time .
The leap Karen Horn will make next month from president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland to chairman and chief executive officer of Banc One Corp. 's Cleveland unit , with $ 1.4 billion in assets , will make her the highest-ranking woman in U.S. banking .
The 43-year-old Mrs. Horn is known as a consummate strategist and crisis manager .
At the Fed she helped resolve Ohio 's thrift crisis in 1985 , when the failure of Home State Savings Bank triggered a panic and prompted the closing of dozens of privately insured thrifts .
She quickly scattered regulators across the state to identify troubled thrifts .
Recognizing that Ohio 's insurance pool would n't even cover Home State 's losses , she also instituted a plan to monitor deposit withdrawals at the other institutions insured by the fund to forestall other failures .
But it is her ability to lead others that should help Mrs. Horn strengthen Banc One and that makes her an attractive potential candidate to head a non-banking concern .
`` She has a presence that drives the best in people , '' says Linda Page , Ohio 's banking commissioner .
`` She 'll look at you in a very engaging way and say , ' Tell me about that . '
You can see her mind churning with thoughts , but she always makes you feel that you 're helping resolve the problem . ''
Mrs. Horn says she devotes as much time as possible to her husband of 21 years and their 4-year-old son .
But she rejects the label `` superwoman . ''
`` I have n't met one yet , '' she says .
`` I do a lot of things at home and in business , but I have a lot of people helping me . ''
President and CEO , USA Network
She started her career as a television producer in Milwaukee and soon concluded that `` the best way to get to the top for a woman is to start at the top with a business of her own .
If I 'd stayed in Milwaukee , I never would have made it to station manager . ''
Kay Koplovitz founded USA Network in 1980 and shaped it to become the No. 1 cable network in terms of viewership and the first to use on-air advertisers .
Today the network provides around-the-clock programming to 33 million households through 8,500 systems .
And with revenue last year of about $ 80 million , USA Network -- jointly owned by Time Inc. , Gulf & Western Inc. 's Paramount Pictures Corp. unit and MCA Inc. -- is continuing to grow 20 % to 30 % annually .
What has set USA Network apart is its diverse programming .
Ms. Koplovitz , who is 41 , was the first to negotiate national cable rights to major-league sports .
She also launched an award-winning children 's program series as well as adult dramas and movies .
`` Instead of simply carving out one little niche like a lot of cable companies , she 's taken on a mix of distinguished programming , '' says Mel Harris , president of Paramount 's television group and a member of USA Network 's executive committee .
`` She could handle a Fortune 500 board . ''
Married to attorney William Koplovitz Jr. , she says , `` I wanted to be president of CBS when I started in television .
But my job now may be more challenging .
We 're the upstarts trying to chip into the broadcast guys ' territory . ''
She familiarized the U.S. with the French name Dior and changed Dior 's image from matronly to youthful .
Her strategy boasted an advertising campaign that featured the escapades of a raffish menage a trois .
While company licensees at first were nervous that the ads were too risque , the campaign hooked consumers .
Under Colombe Nicholas 's direction , revenue at Christian Dior America has more than doubled in the past six years , to $ 315 million in 1986 .
The number of licensees making Dior products has jumped 45 % .
Before taking over Dior 's American arm , the 41-year-old Ms. Nicholas spent 10 years in New York retailing -- at Macy 's and Bloomingdale 's and at Bonwit Teller , where she was vice president of merchandising .
But she believes her international background -- and fluency in French -- gave her the edge over several contenders for the Dior job .
The eldest daughter of an Ohio-businessman father and a French mother , Ms. Nicholas spent part of her childhood in Switzerland .
At her father 's insistence , she also acquired a law degree .
`` I hated law school , but now I thank my father every day , '' she says .
`` I learned how to think analytically . ''
Married to art collector Leonard Rosenberg , Ms. Nicholas describes herself as `` very goal-focused '' and `` a risk taker , '' but is n't a workaholic , she says .
She rarely gets to her office before 9:30 a.m. and says , `` When I meet someone who tells me they 've been up since 5 , jogged 10 miles and gotten five kids off to school , I ask , ' Where 's the coffee ? ' ''
Since it is n't likely that Christian Dior America will be spun off or go public , Ms. Nicholas would have to move to another company to become a Fortune 500 CEO .
A multinational marketing concern would be her most likely move , executive recruiters say .
She does n't rule out that possibility , but says she also is considering a switch to politics .
`` We need more women in government , '' she says , `` and a business background there could be very relevant . ''
She calls herself `` the first woman to succeed at the takeover game , '' a strategy that she figures was her swiftest route to the top .
Determined to head a large company , Linda Wachner last year spearheaded a leveraged buyout of Warnaco Inc. , the Bridgeport , Conn.-based apparel manufacturer of Hathaway shirts , Pringle sweaters and a score of other well-known brands .
Her goal is to make Warnaco `` the foremost apparel conglomerate in the world '' by doubling last year 's sales of $ 575 million in five years .
By then , the 41-year-old executive predicts , the company , which is Fortune 500 in size , could go public .
Ms. Wachner 's marketing and turnaround expertise should serve her well .
As vice president of Warnaco 's Warner bras unit 12 years ago , she revolutionized that business by developing wireless bras and displaying them not in the customary boxes but simply on hangers .
Later , as president of Beatrice Cos. . '
Max Factor cosmetics business , she nursed the faltering unit back to health , launching Le Jardin , Factor 's first successful new perfume in years .
At Warnaco , where she puts in 14-hour days , Ms. Wachner has installed new managers and designers , and cut overhead by consolidating divisions .
She shops in at least one department store each day `` to see what the competition is selling , '' often dragging Warnaco executives with her .
When she is n't visiting Warnaco plants or Paris fashion shows , Ms. Wachner , a widow , shuttles between apartments in Los Angeles and New York .
She does n't mind being called `` tough '' and `` driven '' by some subordinates , she says , `` as long as that means driven for a reason .
`` To make it to the top , '' she says , `` you 've got to want it with all your heart . ''
Ms. Hymowitz is deputy chief of The Wall Street Journal 's Pittsburgh bureau .
Xerox Corp. was awarded a $ 36 million Navy contract for word-processing equipment .
Rockwell International Corp. received a $ 33.1 million Air Force contract for developing missile-guidance and missile-control systems .
General Dynamics Corp. received Air Force contracts totaling $ 27.5 million for F-16 aircraft improvements and laboratory facilities .
Advanced Technology Inc. got an $ 18.6 million Navy contract for shipbuilding support services .
White Engines Inc. was issued a $ 15.5 million Army contract for truck engines .
London share prices declined on the news that the British government would sell its remaining 32 % stake in British Petroleum Co. Tokyo stocks also fell .
London shares declined from trading 's start in the wake of Wednesday 's announcement by the government .
The 100-share index , which edged up 0.3 point Wednesday , closed down 15.6 points , at 1991 .
The Financial Times industrial-share index fell 7.9 to 1581.6 .
The government said the sale would be `` subject to market conditions . ''
It is presumed that the sale is contingent on the ruling Conservative Party winning the next election .
A national vote must be held before June 1988 but is expected sometime this year .
The government will move `` probably sooner rather than later '' to sell the BP stake , worth the equivalent of $ 7.57 billion at yesterday 's close , because of the recent strength in oil prices , a dealer said .
At that value , the sale would be the largest of the government 's privatization efforts this year and would put a substantial demand on the market 's financial resources , dealers said .
Still , it would only temporarily deter the market 's upward trend , they said .
`` I do n't think the bull market is over by any means , '' one said .
The 100-share index opened down 17.5 points .
It struggled higher and was down only 6.0 shortly before noon .
But it could n't sustain even that level during the slack period around midday .
The BP news has been `` used as an excuse by the market-makers to put the market a little bit lower , '' a dealer at County Securities said .
`` It 's more marking-down of stocks by the market-makers than actual business being done . ''
`` The market-makers were looking for levels at which they could do some business , '' a trader observed .
Also , investors probably wanted a few more days of reflection to get a clearer idea of the budget 's impact and where British interest rates are headed , a dealer said .
Cadbury Schweppes was one issue that rose .
There were rumors that General Cinema Corp. had sold its 8.3 % stake in Cadbury to RJR Nabisco Inc. .
After the close of trading in London , a General Cinema spokesman said the company does n't comment on rumors .
Meanwhile , a source close to the company said the rumors were n't true .
The gold mines index rose 6.1 points to 350.4 .
Meanwhile , Tokyo stocks slipped in heavy trading as buying from institutional investors eased in the face of upcoming settlement and valuation dates .
The Nikkei stock average , which surged 190.33 points Wednesday , fell 60.74 points to 21,644.32 after two consecutive days of record closes .
The stock exchange index , which rose 17.05 Wednesday , fell 16.49 to 1858.31 yesterday .
Volume was about 1.4 billion shares , down from a record 2.4 billion Wednesday .
The fiscal year valuation today for tokkin funds as well as half-year settlements for several large securities firms sparked widespread selling after a bullish start , traders said .
Tokkin funds are similar to U.S. mutual funds .
Institutions preparing for book closings also limited their buying , contributing to the drop in trading .
The easing turnover sidelined other investors worried about a possible correction in the Nikkei average following recent surges , traders said .
In the 15 sessions before yesterday 's , the average successively posted record-closing streaks of five days , four days and two days .
Here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective , Geneva .
To make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 .
The percentage change is since year-end .
`` If you 're a narc , you 're dead . ''
The words , uttered calmly by a menacing-looking man with a heavy black beard , hang in the bar 's smoky air .
`` If you 're a narc , '' he repeats with emphasis , `` you 're dead . ''
I glance at my partner for the evening , Edward Probst , a 320-pound undercover detective in a blue-jeans jacket with a pistol tucked in the small of his back .
This type of talk should n't frighten me , except that tonight I , too , am a narcotics agent .
And now I am supposed to walk outside to a parked car -- my first `` solo '' -- and buy a half-gram of cocaine .
It is the `` final exam '' at a class run by Professional Law Enforcement Inc. , a detective agency that does drug-surveillance work for small towns , high schools and some major corporations .
Agents of PLE , a unit of privately held Massey Burch Investment Group Inc. of Nashville , Tenn. , in recent months were behind more than 200 drug and other arrests at several General Motors Corp. plants and 137 arrests at or near a Whirlpool Corp. facility in Arkansas .
PLE let this reporter attend a two-week training course for prospective agents , at the end of which , if possible , each trainee is to make a drug buy as part of a sheriff's-department undercover operation .
Things go wrong as soon as we reach the car .
`` Do a snort , '' urges the dealer , drawing from his jacket a thimble-sized vial filled with white powder .
`` It 's what you 'll be buying . ''
I had practiced faking cocaine use in a hotel mirror for days in anticipation of this moment .
But my hands tremble as I fumble with the vial and a coke spoon disguised as a key .
Recalling a tip , I bob my head in the seat as I draw the spoon to my nose , feigning fear of being seen by passing police .
With the dealer 's gaze momentarily diverted , I sniff , a bit too violently , while secretly sliding the white powder off onto my left thumb .
Quickly I wipe my thumb on my pants while running the spoon over my gums .
`` You seem a little bit too much in a hurry , '' the dealer says .
`` That makes me nervous .
I do n't even think you snorted that .
Mind if I see some ID ? ''
Foolishly , I produce my wallet , flashing my driver 's license and my library card .
But I balk when he suggests we snort a `` line , '' a procedure that is very hard to fake .
`` Are we going to do the deal or not ? ''
I ask , not needing to fake my fear and anger .
`` Let 's just go back inside . ''
Inside , we walk to a bathroom to complete the buy .
Here the deal is nearly blown again : Not only am I forced to run outside to break a $ 20 bill , but also I hand over the $ 50 before being given the vial , a cardinal sin for a narc .
Still , I manage to do the deal .
My elation at that , however , vanishes an hour later .
I learn that the deal was phony : The `` coke '' is n't coke , and the `` dealer '' is a PLE man .
He is Gary Smith , a detective who later permits me to accompany him during part of an undercover drug investigation in Mason , Ohio .
The instructors explain that a trainee needs to be observed doing what he believes is a real drug deal .
PLE 's training , while not nearly as rigorous as the monthslong courses given federal Drug Enforcement Agency agents , is considered superior to that of many small agencies that only dabble in undercover work .
It is supervised by the portly Mr. Probst and another agent , Harry Sweigart .
Mr. Probst , like a tourist checking his wallet , frequently flicks his hand to the pistol at his belt .
He has reason to be jumpy : He has recently busted eight members of a motorcycle gang after living with two of them for months ; he hears they have put a price on his head .
In the class besides me are two detectives and an 18-year-old woman targeted for undercover work in high schools .
Most recruits are police officers , and the first step is to `` de-cop '' them .
Shed immediately are black leather belts and black oxfords .
The class is told to avoid jargon like `` perpetrator . ''
Even posture may be changed .
`` Do n't walk with one arm swinging , '' one new agent is told .
`` It 's a cop walk . ''
Tips range from the useful -LRB- `` stay away from cellular phones ; neighbors can listen in '' -RRB- to the obvious -LRB- `` fistfights do n't look good ; plus , you may get whipped '' -RRB- .
A seminar on pretending to use cocaine is a near-fiasco .
Scott , a beefy police reservist from Michigan , repeatedly tips a cocaine spoon , showering rivulets of Sweet 'N Low down his shirt-front .
Instructors warn me against my habit of dusting the `` cocaine '' off the table top .
`` Do that for real and you 'll have eight guys sniffing at your feet , '' one says .
The toughest task for some new agents , officers who may scorn drug users , is simply asking to buy drugs .
`` Some cops just can n't do it , '' says Mr. Probst with a shrug .
The approach should be indirect and nonthreatening .
Not `` I hear you have some coke , '' but `` Know anybody who has some coke ? ''
And always haggle .
`` Most cops will buy anything at any price , '' says Mr. Sweigart .
`` Do that and you 're made -LCB- exposed -RCB- .
Talk 'em down .
You 'll look better to the dopers , and the city or company will love you for saving them money . ''
To acquire the tools of their trade , such as copies of High Times magazine to scatter around their home , new operatives visit a `` head shop '' filled with hundreds of carved and metal pipes , colorful glass `` bongs '' for pot-smoking , and drug stashes in the form of soft-drink and tennis-ball cans with screw tops .
Don , a tough-talking homicide detective from Akron , Ohio , squats before a glass case and chooses two coke spoons and a kit for cutting cocaine .
`` Jeez , '' he whispers , `` it 's so funny standing here .
I used to bust guys carrying this stuff and think , ' You dirtball . ' ''
Not all excursions go smoothly .
One night Mr. Probst , who sometimes feels compelled to revisit the scenes of his buys , tows us into the darkened streets of a rundown area in West Dayton to the clubhouse of a motorcycle gang .
A blue Gremlin pulls behind us as we drive by .
Circling to pass again , we meet the car at an intersection .
A bearded face reminiscent of killer Charles Manson peers into our car , craning at us as we go by .
`` Oh man , I busted that guy , '' Mr. Probst says .
`` Hurry up . ''
Five quick turns later we leave the neighborhood .
`` What a rush , '' Don says from the back seat .
`` Really , '' Mr. Probst says , staring ahead , touching his gun .
Undercover agents spend a lot of time looking for drugs , but sometimes the drugs find them first .
One evening a group of narcs and narc trainees gathers at a striptease bar for drinks and debriefing .
Talk of `` coke '' and `` buys '' apparently attracts attention .
Before long , a scantily clad dancer cozies up in a chair next to me .
`` You like coke ? '' she coos .
I nod , and negotiations begin .
`` My dealer comes in at two .
Fifty dollars a half-gram .
It 's got crystals .
It 's just up from Florida .
You 'll love it . ''
A few detectives favor buying the drugs , but to do so would violate the rule against making a buy without clear authority from local law-enforcement officials .
Besides , we 've had plenty to drink .
After somebody mutters , `` Honey , we 're cops , '' the group quickly walks out of the dimly lit club , leaving the would-be dealer gaping .
-LRB- See related story : `` Cover Story : Drug Detective 's Stint In Small Town Blends Risk , Dilemma , Ennui --- Gary Smith Dresses Scruffily , Hangs Out , Buys Dope -- And Calls Home at 3 a.m. --- The Climax of ' Mason Vice ' '' -- WSJ March 20 , 1987 -RRB-
In the corner of Prof. Shinichi Uchida 's laboratory at the University of Tokyo , across from the bottles of liquid nitrogen , stands a bunk bed .
Until recently it was little used .
Then , on Feb. 15 , a University of Houston press conference announced the latest breakthrough in the science of superconductivity , a development with potentially enormous commercial applications .
The lab and its bunks here seldom have been empty since .
For three weeks Prof. Uchida 's 12-researcher team worked around the clock , seven days a week to duplicate the Houston results .
Sleeping in shifts , they cooked their meals in a tiny kitchenette while their latest batch of experimental ceramic pellets baked in the lab 's kiln .
In other labs , in company board rooms and in the offices of the powerful Ministry of Trade and Industry , or MITI , the Houston breakthrough has galvanized Japan .
Scientists , industrialists and government officials have responded frantically , convinced they can , and must , walk away with the commercial applications .
`` When it comes time to make something out of it , '' predicts Prof. Shoji Tanaka , who is Prof. Uchida 's boss , `` the Japanese will have the upper hand . ''
In the U.S. , by contrast , the reaction has been more measured .
Labs are busy , but there is n't any nationally coordinated drive for commercialization .
Leaders in superconductivity research caution that much science remains to be done first .
`` You must keep in mind that the scientific scene is changing so rapidly that to decide -LRB- on specific applications -RRB- on the basis of what is known today would be a mistake , '' says John Armstrong , director of the research division at International Business Machines Corp. .
It would also be wrong , he thinks , `` to turn this into a race between East and West . ''
Here in Tokyo , however , the race is already on , showing once again the competitive drive and speed with which Japan can seize on Western science .
New materials that conduct electricity at warmer temperatures with almost no loss of power , have `` opened a fantastic world of future industries , '' says Masatoshi Urashima , a MITI official .
Because previous superconductors operated only at extremely low and expensive-to-maintain temperatures , the new materials make economical the creation of tiny , superfast computers , magnetically floating trains , long-distance power lines that do n't waste electricity and even appliances that use almost no power .
The discovery meshes with technologies Japan has refined for years .
Japan has a train using superconductivity that is almost ready for commercial use .
It travels at more than 250 miles an hour while hovering five inches above a track on a magnetic cushion created by superconducting coils .
Japan 's shipbuilders , meanwhile , have spent $ 23 million to build a fast ship propelled by superconducting magnets .
NEC Corp. and others already have produced prototypes of superconducting computer chips ; the West gave up trying to do so four years ago .
Such giant electronics concerns as Hitachi Ltd. are supplying the West with millions of dollars of superconducting equipment .
And Japan 's leading role in industrial ceramics will help it develop ceramic superconductors .
`` A lot of revolutionary things are going to come up and a lot of it is going to come from Japan , '' says David L. Keller , a technology analyst with James Capel & Co. , a British securities firm .
`` The Japanese will dramatically lead the rest of the world . ''
The Japanese government already is organizing that .
Four days after the Houston bombshell , Japan 's Science and Technology Agency announced its intent to form a research consortium of Japanese companies , universities and government labs .
A week later , the consortium was in place , including such industrial giants as NEC , Toshiba Corp. , Nippon Steel Corp. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp. `` We 've gathered all the leading-edge researchers in superconductivity in Japan , '' says Koji Yamaguchi , the agency official overseeing research .
`` We need to get everybody together to share information and decide how to move . ''
MITI , the agency that picks and funds national projects like the one that helped Japanese makers dominate the memory chip business , began moving on the day of the announcement .
It already is polishing up an existing feasibility study on a superconducting power plant and plans to have a working model built by 1992 .
`` The objective is to organize industry to get the jump on the West in applications and commercialization for a huge new market , '' says Nihon Keizai Shimbun , Japan 's leading business daily .
The earliest application , researchers say , could be superconducting computer chips that would enable creation of a shoe box-sized supercomputer .
IBM and most other U.S. companies abandoned research in 1983 on the chips , called Josephson Junction devices , partly because of the complications of cooling with helium .
That left NEC , Hitachi and a MITI lab to refine the technology with little foreign competition .
For all the government-inspired organization , Japan 's research labs did n't wait for government orders when they heard the news from Houston last month .
At the University of Tokyo , Mr. Uchida sat his researchers down in front of a large periodic table of the elements .
For hours they debated which elements Houston could possibly have used .
While they were still guessing , a rumor came over the phone that the material was fluoric .
Students ran out and bought fluorinated chemicals .
For three days they tried out hundreds of combinations until they found the rumor was false .
Acting on another tip that the Houston material was dark green , the researchers mixed all the plausible chemicals that would become green when fired , again with no success . -LRB- The material needs to be fired further until it is black , they found later . -RRB-
Then a news report said a Chinese lab had achieved superconductivity at 100 degrees Kelvin -LRB- minus 173 degrees Celsius -RRB- using a ceramic with ytterbium in it and researchers attacked that .
The report proved wrong -- the element was yttrium . -LRB- Ironically , the University of Tokyo lab later found , by coincidence , that ytterbium works .
The lab patented the discovery . -RRB-
Finally at 2 a.m. March 1 , they got superconductivity .
`` It was an other-worldly experience , '' says Prof. Uchida .
They drank a toast and launched back into another week of experiments , this time to refine the resulting ceramic .
On March 8 they announced a purified form .
On Wednesday the lab finally took a holiday .
Meanwhile , labs at Tohoko University , Hokkaido University and a government research facility in Tokyo have burst forth with rapid-fire announcements of their advances in superconductivity .
They and other labs have been snatching up the ingredients for superconductors so fast that there are shortages .
Suppliers have run out of yttrium , for example , and labs must wait three weeks for orders to be filled .
Prof. Uchida 's lab has been flooded by calls and visits from companies .
Sumitomo Electric Industries Ltd. researchers brought in some rudimentary wire made from superconducting ceramic .
Engineers from Toshiba , Fujitsu Ltd. and Hitachi have visited the lab to keep watch on developments. `` Company people have the conviction that ths s finally the real thing .
A lot are starting to pick it up. . . .
They see tha superconductivity is a sure thing and the want to get on to application , '' says rof .
Uchida .
`` Everybody 's going to be doing it -- steelmakers , cemical companies , computer makers , cement makers .
They 'll all be getting in to apply this , '' he says .
Of course , there is scientific and commercial excitement in the U.S. , too , but it 's less frenetic and is n't centrally controlled .
Scientists say indications of an incipient breakthrough came as early as April 1986 , when researchers at IBM 's laboratory in Zurich , Switzerland , reported they had achieved superconductivity in a new class of materials , the metal oxide ceramics .
This galvanized researchers throughout the world .
By November , the Japanese and Chinese had confirmed the IBM discovery and by December , scientists in Houston and at American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 's Bell Laboratories were reporting important advances with the new materials .
About 5,000 physicists jammed the ballroom of the Hilton Hotel in New York Wednesday night for an unprecedented special session on superconductors at the annual meeting of the American Physical Society .
They listened to the presentation of 60 papers on superconductivity research done largely within the last two to three months .
Although scientists from U.S. universities dominated the program , there were reports from IBM , Bell Labs , Westinghouse Electric Corp. and Exxon Corp. as well as from Japanese , Chinese and Canadian scientists .
The breakthrough generated tremendous excitement among Bell Labs scientists , says Robert A. Laudise , director of the laboratories ' inorganic chemistry branch .
`` Usually , research managers are coaching people to do this or that , '' Mr. Laudise notes .
`` But in this case we had people coming around from all different disciplines wanting to know if there was anything in this for their area , '' he says .
`` We 've had a lot of people going without sleep , '' Mr. Laudise says .
But he agrees with IBM 's Mr. Armstrong that it 's still too soon for anyone to settle on specific applications of the superconductors .
`` We 're not trying to make any specific devices or systems , '' he says .
Bell Labs researchers are , however , trying to fabricate various superconducting materials into experimental devices .
At Wednesday 's APS meeting they displayed a superconductor in the form of a flexible ceramic tape that can be formed and then hardened into a shape to fit a superconducting device .
`` When you try to make things , it challenges your understanding of the materials , '' explains Mr. Laudise .
While `` it is mainly a scientific race . . . we 're well aware of the competitive aspects '' of the research , he says .
Patent applications are filed as rapidly as possible and scientists do n't always disclose all their findings in open scientific meetings , he notes .
Researchers at General Electric Co. 's big research and development center in Schnectady , N.Y. , agree that it 's too soon to jump into an industrial competition with anyone , including the Japanese .
`` In the materials field , the events of the last several weeks have been quite spectacular , but in the applications sense , the jury is still very much out , '' says Michael Jefferies , manager in the center 's engineering physics laboratory .
Until recently , the GE lab did n't have a group of scientists working on superconducting materials .
`` But we 're now trying to confirm and duplicate the results that are being reported , '' Mr. Jefferies says .
Guy Donaruma , vice president for research at the University of Alabama in Huntsville , says governmental agencies and private concerns have shown a keen interest in the university 's superconductivity research , which duplicated the Houston breakthrough .
`` Wherever I go around town somebody buttonholes me and asks how we 're coming along or when can we use this , '' Mr. Donaruma says .
Some inquiries have come from the space and defense related agencies in the area , including the Marshall Space Flight Center and the U.S. Army Missile Command , he says .
Some Southern utilities also have made inquiries regarding possible uses applicable to more efficient means of transmitting power , he adds .
In Palo Alto , Calif. , where Stanford University recently announced a breakthrough in fabricating a superconducting thin film , useful in electronic devices , a news conference last week was packed with industry people .
Several other scientists have called for more information for use in making a superpowerful magnet used by geological researchers .
Niels Reimers , director of Stanford 's technology licensing office , said , however , that he has n't been fielding many industry inquiries .
In Japan , however , companies that already sell conventional superconducting wire to the U.S. have begun crash programs to commercialize the new discovery .
Fujikura Ltd. and Sumitomo Electric , for example , say they have developed rudimentary wire out of the new ceramic , despite skepticism among some scientists that the material will n't lend itself to wiremaking .
`` As makers , we 've got to pick it up , '' says a Sumitomo spokesman .
`` And we 're moving on it . ''
Like their U.S. counterparts , Japanese makers temper their euphoria with warnings that too little is known about the new ceramic superconductor to tell when and how the material will be commercialized .
Aside from possible problems in forming brittle ceramic into wire , the new superconductor still can n't handle enough current to be used in heavy applications such as power plants .
Superconductors also do n't work well with alternating current , the type of electricity used in most of the world 's power equipment .
But Japanese labs are convinced they can solve the problems over the next several years .
Now that the West has made the basic breakthrough , they say , the ball is in their court .
`` It will be difficult and will take time , '' says Kasumasa Togano , a government scientist .
`` But that 's precisely where Japan 's labs and makers have the edge . ''
Still , he and other researchers admit to a twinge of hurt pride .
`` To be honest , we 're following in the footsteps of the U.S. , '' Mr. Togano says .
`` Here , again , the originality is coming from the West .
We have a measure of sadness about that . ''
Jerry E. Bishop in New York contributed to this article .
The American chief executive officer is a different breed .
He 's more no-frills 1950s than Yuppified 1980s , more meat-and-potatoes than `` cuisine minceur '' , more comfortable in blue suit , white shirt and red tie than in the fashions of the times .
If he were a movie star , he 'd be Spencer Tracy -- not Cary Grant and certainly not one of the casually dressed and startlingly young-looking box-office biggies of today .
Like Tracy , he carries extra weight around his waist , and like Tracy , he owns up to it .
He 's a man for the long haul .
Almost one-third of the 351 respondents to a Wall Street Journal survey on executive style said they have never worked for a company other than the one they now lead .
And 43 % of them were with their company for more than 16 years before becoming CEO .
The survey -- which targeted the CEOs of the Fortune 500 industrial companies and 350 of the Fortune 500 service companies -- found that in their personal lives as well as their business careers , these men go against the grain of the evanescent 1980s .
In a time when it seems that all sorts of things from automobiles to relationships do n't last as long as they used to , more than 80 % of the CEOs have been married only once , and roughly the same percentage have been married longer than 20 years .
Just over a third have four or more children -- a plurality over those who have two or three . -LRB- A tiny 4 % have only one child , and 2 % have none . -RRB-
All of the survey respondents were male ; so few women lead large U.S. corporations that many survey questions were written with a male respondent in mind , angering some women who read them .
Not only has the women 's movement not put women at the top of the nation 's largest corporations , it also has n't had much impact on chief executives ' spouses .
More than 90 % of respondents ' spouses in the survey do n't work outside the home .
The fathers of today 's CEOs had a wide range of careers -- policemen , doctors , lawyers , journalists , engineers .
But more had business executives for fathers than anything else .
They come from all regions of the U.S. , but none of the respondents grew up in Maine , North Dakota , Montana , Wyoming , Arizona , Nevada , Alaska or Hawaii .
New York produced 15 % of the chief executives , the highest single-state total .
Just under 3 % of them grew up abroad .
Their personal habits would n't surprise a Rip Van Winkle waking up after snoozing through the upheavals of the '60s and '70s -- except , perhaps , for the lack of cigarette smoke in the executive suite .
Only 7 % smoke cigarettes .
But they like to have a drink .
Only 8 % are teetotalers .
For the rest , the most popular drinks are wine and Scotch .
A martini is the drink of choice for only 7 % .
These clearly are affluent men .
They like expensive cars , and for all their Main Street traits , almost half of them are deserting Detroit for foreign car makes .
Overwhelmingly , the first cars they ever bought were Fords and Chevys .
But now , only half of them prefer U.S.-built autos .
On their wrists , you 're most likely to find a Seiko watch .
When they buy the blue suits , white shirts and red ties they favor , they 're most likely to get them at Brooks Brothers .
Still , a quarter of them have suits and shirts custom made , and a good sprinkling favor tailors in London or Hong Kong .
Another sprinkling have stuck to less glamorous haberdasheries such as Wallach 's .
But a few break away from the pattern of their peers to indulge an offbeat hobby .
There 's a bagpiper and a couple of banjo players .
Two men list curling among their favorite sports .
A handful relax by cooking .
Two raise orchids , and one carves duck decoys .
If you could live in any city , where would it be ?
William Gates , founder and chairman of Microsoft Corp. , became the personal computer industry 's first billion-dollar man yesterday .
The 31-year-old Harvard University dropout holds 11,018,955 shares , or about a 42 % stake in Microsoft , which supplies , among other things , the internal program that controls the basic functions of International Business Machines Inc. 's PC line of personal computers and compatible machines .
The magic number for the billion-dollar mark for Mr. Gates 's stake was a share price of $ 90.75 , and the stock rose above and dipped below that level during the day .
Microsoft finally closed at $ 91.25 , up $ 1.75 , in national over-the-counter trading , which brought the value of his stake to $ 1,005,479,643.75 .
Mr. Gates , who was traveling in South America , was n't available for comment on his new distinction .
In recent months , colleagues and competitors had begun to jokingly refer to Mr. Gates as `` Billion Dollar Bill '' as the paper value of his fortune swelled .
Mr. Gates is the biggest beneficiary of an astonishing run-up in the price of Microsoft shares .
The shares , which first were offered to the public a little more than a year ago for $ 21 each , have been outpacing the booming stock markets in recent months , and have nearly doubled in value since the end of the year .
`` Is there a premium in the stock price because of Bill Gates ? '' asked Richard Sherlund , an analyst who follows the company for Goldman , Sachs & Co. .
`` I 'd have to say yes , because he is considered one of the brightest people in the industry . ''
Mr. Sherlund also said Microsoft 's role `` at the focal point of the personal computer industry '' -- supplying operating system software to both IBM and other manufacturers -- has driven market enthusiasm for the stock .
Not even the founders of Apple Computer Inc. , Steven P. Jobs and Steve Wozniak , came close to building billion-dollar fortunes in personal computers , even though they practically fathered that industry .
In high-technology businesses , only H. Ross Perot , who founded Electronic Data Systems Corp. , now the data-processing services division of General Motors Corp. , and David Packard and William Hewlett , founders of computer and scientific instrument maker Hewlett-Packard Co. , have the distinction of building personal fortunes estimated to exceed $ 1 billion .
Despite a veto threat from President Reagan , the Senate passed an $ 88 billion highway bill , but it postponed action on a separate measure to allow states to raise the speed limit to 65 miles an hour on most rural interstate highways .
The 79-17 Senate vote on the House-Senate conference report came a day after the House approved the legislation by an overwhelming 407-17 .
Both votes indicate Congress could override a presidential veto .
The House voted separately 217-206 to permit states to raise the speed limit to 65 mph from 55 mph on most rural interstate highways .
The president , in his veto message to Senate Majority Leader Robert Byrd -LRB- D. , W.Va. -RRB- , expressed `` grave concerns '' about the cost of the legislation -- particularly for more than 150 special highway construction projects and for mass transit programs .
Mr. Reagan said that over the five-year life of the bill , the mass-transit funding would exceed his budget request by $ 9.1 billion .
While he noted that he `` strongly '' supported allowing states to raise the speed limit , he said that `` overall , the measure is seriously flawed . ''
To eliminate Mr. Reagan 's objections to the bill , Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole -LRB- R. , Kan. -RRB- said an amendment would be offered to the speed-limit provision when it comes up on the floor , probably today .
The amendment , he said , may be the four-year , $ 65 billion highway bill that the Senate passed earlier this year .
Although that bill greatly exceeded the administration 's budget request for mass transit , it did n't contain any extra funding for special highway projects .
The House-Senate conference report contains about $ 890 million in new federal funding for these projects ; the money would be in addition to the states ' regular shares of federal highway aid .
By using the speed-limit provision to amend the highway conference report , Sen. Dole would circumvent the procedural ban on amendments to conference reports and appease the administration .
But the action , if successful , also could jeopardize the highway legislation because the House , which has fought fiercely for the special highway projects , would have to approve the changes .
`` The bill as is , and only the bill as is , can be passed by the Congress , '' said Sen. Daniel Patrick Moynihan -LRB- D. , N.Y. -RRB- , floor manager for the bill .
Administration insiders concede Sen. Dole 's effort to change the highway bill by amending the speed-limit provision is a long shot .
That 's partly because senators from the West who are sympathetic to cost concerns about the highway bill do n't want to jeopardize the speed-limit measure by changing it .
But even if Sen. Dole 's gambit fails , these officials said , the exercise could help sustain a presidential veto of the highway bill later .
The reasoning is that the Senate would be more likely to vote to sustain a veto if it were clear that the president supported the original , Senate-passed highway bill .
That bill would authorize about $ 53 billion for highways and $ 13 billion for mass transit over a four-year period .
The House-Senate conference report would authorize about $ 70 billion for highways and $ 18 billion for transit over five years .
Waste Management Inc. , which had said it would n't sweeten its $ 27-a-share bid for ChemLawn Corp. and had insisted the offer was `` fair and fully priced , '' said it is ready to boost the bid to $ 33 a share .
But Wall Street did n't seem satisfied as traders drove ChemLawn 's stock price above the proposed bid .
Such activity usually indicates that the market expects a higher bid or a new suitor .
ChemLawn declined to comment , but a spokesman said the company was likely to respond to the offer today .
The Columbus , Ohio-based lawn-care concern has been seeking other purchasers since earlier this month , when it rejected Waste Management 's $ 27-a-share bid as `` inadequate . ''
Waste Management announced that surprise tender offer in late February .
Under the new plan , the Oak Brook , Ill.-based waste hauler said it would pay $ 33 for each of ChemLawn 's about 10 million shares , or about $ 330 million , if ChemLawn promptly agrees to be acquired at that price .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , ChemLawn common shares closed at $ 34.125 , up $ 2.25 .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Waste Management closed at $ 76.375 , up $ 1.50 .
A Waste Management spokesman declined to say why the company did an about-face and raised the bid .
`` Waste Management probably initially thought $ 27 was high enough that it would be a pre-emptive bid , '' said Clarke Walser , an analyst with Chicago Corp. .
In mid-February , immediately before Waste Management 's offer , ChemLawn shares were trading between $ 16 and $ 18 .
But the stock instantly jumped above Waste Management 's $ 27-a-share offer to $ 29.625 bid .
It has gradually risen since .
Waste Management may have been worried by ChemLawn 's announcement in mid-March that it was in talks with various parties on the possible sale of the company , Mr. Walser said .
Acquiring ChemLawn would expand Waste Management 's residential-services business from trash collection into lawn spraying .
Analysts have said that Waste Management has been looking for acquisitions in the outdoor-services industry , and the company is well-armed financially to pursue them .
The Waste Management spokesman said the company would pay for ChemLawn with cash and short-term debt .
He declined to elaborate .
-LRB- `` . . . a new addition at Boston University is the Center for the Study of Disinformation. '' -- News item -RRB- :
To disinform .
Of advanced misleading .
-- Dow Richardson .
Unfortunately , some folks can n't tell what they think until they hear what they say .
-- Arnold H. Glasow .
Convenience food : anything you find in the front of the fridge .
-- Rose Sands .
We have witnessed startling events in U.S. foreign policy during the past year .
The Reykjavik summit produced what appeared to be a total repudiation of America 's basic security posture by proposing the total abolition of ballistic missiles by 1996 .
The Iran-contra affair repudiated America 's basic position of not dealing with terrorist governments and not paying ransom for hostages .
These abrupt foreign-policy shifts followed less noticed but equally abrupt shifts in economic policy .
From 1980 to 1984 , the U.S. followed a deliberate policy of driving up the value of the dollar and interpreting its 50 % rise as a reflection of American strength ; in 1985 , the U.S. shifted gears and proceeded to drive the dollar down at least as much in order to regain American competitiveness .
To resolve the Third World debt problem , it supported an austerity policy sponsored by the International Monetary Fund from 1980 to 1984 , and then switched to a growth-oriented policy in 1985 .
Consistency , in and of itself , is not necessarily a virtue .
But when the world 's leading economic and military power shifts gears as brutally and dramatically as the U.S. has done in areas vital to its allies as well as its adversaries , the result is an inevitable loss of America 's ability to provide leadership .
To this we must add the dynamics created by a presidential election in 1988 .
There is no purely American solution to any of our major economic problems .
The U.S. cannot afford a recession that would drive its deficits to more than $ 300 billion and possibly cause a crash in the value of the dollar as well as in the stock and bond markets .
The result could be massive domestic and international banking defaults , a world recession and political instability in large parts of the globe .
Avoiding such a catastrophe will involve a delicate combination of coordinated domestic and international efforts :
-- The U.S. must cut its budget deficit with new taxes and reductions in expenditures .
-- To counteract the risk of recession , it must reduce interest rates and run an easier monetary policy .
-- To avoid a collapse of the dollar , Japan and Europe will have to stimulate growth , cut taxes and interest rates .
-- And to promote growth in the Third World , the U.S. , Japan and Western Europe will have to agree on an aggressive plan of debt restructuring and new capital for the debtor countries .
It is hard to see how any of this could happen in a traditional U.S. presidential election year .
Under normal circumstances , even if the next president were willing to embrace such an agenda it probably would not see the light of day until 1990 .
That may well be too late .
In the foreign-policy field , events are similarly crowding the U.S. Developments in the Soviet Union suggest a desire on the part of General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev for a massive effort to modernize the Soviet economy , which can happen only with the West 's cooperation .
For the first time since World War II , it is possible that arms-control negotiations , tied to economic and trade negotiations , could change the internal dynamics of the Soviet Union and , possibly , the overall relationship between the U.S. and the Soviet Union .
The volatile stituation in the Middle East requires firm and steady leadership from the U.S. together with Europe , both for international security reasons and for America 's coming dependence on Mideastern oil .
How is all this affected by next year 's presidential election ?
Politicians have a tendency to re-create the last election just as generals have a tendency to fight the last war .
By that wisdom , on the domestic front , the Democratic presidential candidates will refuse to discuss any increase in taxes and the Republican candidates will duck the issue of possible cutbacks in Social Security and other entitlements .
That will clearly doom any serious action on the budget deficit until 1990 .
On the international front , neither Democrats nor Republicans will want to deal with Third World debt restructuring while the farm sector , the energy sector and other parts of the U.S. economy are in difficulty .
As for American ties with the Soviets , Republicans will outdo each other as to hawkishness and Democrats will fear to be perceived as `` soft on communism . ''
The presidential candidates in 1988 will have to decide whether to be realistic and truthful about what the U.S. is facing , thereby running the risk of political suicide .
Or , they will have to make promises they cannot possibly keep and , therefore , be unable to govern if elected .
One way to avoid these alternatives would be to try to create a consensus among moderate Republican and Democratic leaders on certain aspects of an agenda for the next president .
This could be done by establishing a bipartisan congressional commission modeled on the Temporary National Economic Commission set up by Franklin Roosevelt in 1938 to study the country 's economic problems .
The commission could consist of , say , four members of Congress , four businessmen and four academicians .
They would be evenly split between Republicans and Democrats and would represent ideologically moderate wings of their parties .
Their task would be to identify the main issues and to establish the next president 's priorities .
Even if the commission did not reach a consensus on how to solve the major economic problems , it could lay out options that could influence the campaign debate .
With respect to the deficit , the alternatives of higher income taxes or new types of consumption taxes would leave a great deal of room for argument -- as would mechanisms to make certain that new taxes do not translate into new spending .
When it comes to trade , the options would probably include a further lowering of the dollar , temporary tariffs , or some forms of limited industrial policies .
As for interest rates and the Federal Reserve , the commission could debate monetary policy and , one would hope , come up with an unanimous recommendation to continue Paul Volcker for another term .
With respect to entitlements , the alternative of means testings or taxing affluent recipients should be examined .
And as for Third World debt , the options could include government involvement as part of a major restructuring program of the type recommended by Sen. Bill Bradley -LRB- D. , N.J. -RRB- or the continuation of rollovers together with some version of the current Baker Plan .
While a commission would provide a reasonable framework for debate of the economic alternatives and allow the candidates to present their vision of America within such a framework , it would also provide the domestic framework within which Americans could debate the critical foreign-policy issue of the 1988 campaign -- namely , America 's long-term relationship with the Soviet Union .
In the final analysis , the next president will be elected on the voters ' belief in his character and his competence .
If the country wishes to elect a radical of the right or of the left , so be it .
But if the country wishes to elect a moderate , at least let us provide him with some of the tools to do the job : a realistic program for his election and bipartisan support for his governance .
Mr. Rohatyn is a senior partner in Lazard Freres & Co. and chairman of New York 's Municipal Assistance Corp. .
A membership on the New York Mercantile Exchange sold at $ 150,000 , down from $ 155,000 paid for a seat in a Feb. 17 sale , but far above the $ 80,000 paid for one on March 19 , 1986 .
Currently , memberships are being quoted at $ 135,000 bid and $ 155,000 asked , according to an exchange spokeswoman .
Bobbie Brooks Inc. said its board approved an anti-takeover plan involving the distribution of stock-purchase rights to shareholders .
Under the plan , holders of common stock will receive the right to buy one share at an exercise price of $ 4.50 for each share they hold .
The rights are exercisable if a suitor acquires or makes a tender offer for at least 20 % of the stock .
The maker of women 's clothing said it is n't aware of any takeover interest in the company .
BCE Development Corp. expects first-quarter earnings to rise from the year earlier , partly because of $ 18 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- in pre-tax profit from the sale of two Canadian properties , Jack Poole , president , said after the annual meeting .
BCE , a real estate concern , is 68 % -owned by Bell Canada Enterprises Inc. , Montreal .
Comparable first-quarter results are n't yet available for 1986 because the company is changing its fiscal year to Dec. 31 from Oct. 31 .
Boyd L. Jefferies , chairman of Jefferies Group Inc. , the Los Angeles-based brokerage firm that pioneered off-market trading and became a major force in takeovers , agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of securities law violations .
And , according to people familiar with the government 's investigation , Mr. Jefferies also has implicated others in the securities industry 's rapidly widening scandal , including individuals believed to have manipulated the price of an offering by American Express Co. of Fireman 's Fund Corp. securities last year .
Mr. Jefferies also settled , without admitting guilt , related charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission that he engaged in multiple violations of securities laws as a participant in a market manipulation scheme , and in a separate scheme with takeover speculator Ivan F. Boesky to `` park '' stock .
Parking stock occurs when an investor buys stock for another who does n't want to be identified as the owner .
The SEC charged that , in certain cases , Mr. Jefferies helped mask Mr. Boesky 's identity , and that in others the arrangement was reversed .
The developments are dramatic confirmation that the government 's investigation has moved far beyond insider trading .
People familiar with the investigation said Mr. Jefferies , who is cooperating fully with the government , has described other instances of parking and stock manipulation , suggesting that the illegal practices have been widespread on Wall Street .
In a letter to shareholders of publicly traded Jefferies Group , Mr. Jefferies , who resigned yesterday as chairman , said , `` I fully accept sole responsibility for these transactions '' and `` it is with deep personal sorrow and regret that I leave the company that has been my life for the past 25 years . ''
He emphasized that neither he nor the company engaged in insider trading and did n't breach `` any trust or confidence placed in us by our customers . ''
As part of his settlement , the 56-year-old Mr. Jefferies was barred from the securities industry for at least five years and placed his personal 13 % stake in Jefferies Group in a voting trust .
Frank Baxter , 50 , who has been president and chief operating officer of Jefferies , became the new chief executive .
In national over-the-counter trading , Jefferies 's shares closed at $ 11 , down 25 cents .
The SEC also censured Jefferies & Co. , the company 's securities trading unit , and ordered the unit to retain an outside consultant to review its procedures designed to detect violations of securities laws .
No fines were imposed .
On Wall Street , the penalties were generally deemed to be light , given the scope of the offenses charged , and suggest that Mr. Jefferies 's cooperation is important to the government .
The market manipulation charge was the most startling of the offenses alleged yesterday by the SEC because it has nothing to do with Mr. Boesky or insider trading , and implicates other individuals and firms .
Mr. Jefferies was charged with manipulating the price of a stock involved in a 1986 secondary public stock offering at the request of an unnamed person .
Allegedly , he bought huge blocks of the stock at or near the close of trading to boost its price , thereby affecting the price of the public offering the next day .
The SEC refused to identify the person or the companies involved .
But people familiar with the government 's investigation said the transaction described is an eight-million unit offering of stock and warrants of Fireman 's Fund by American Express last May .
American Express received $ 332 million from the offering , which was underwritten by a syndicate led by Salomon Brothers Inc. and Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. , an American Express subsidiary .
According to the SEC charges , Jefferies , at the request of the unnamed individual , agreed to drive up the stock price by buying the blocks .
In return , the person agreed to indemnify Jefferies for any loss incurred in buying and holding the stock .
Jefferies subsequently sold its shares at a loss and was reimbursed .
To disguise the payment , Jefferies issued a fraudulent invoice to the person for alleged `` investment banking services , '' and later , at the person 's request , issued another fraudulent invoice to someone else .
The people familiar with the case would n't identify any of the individuals involved , but said the person who initiated the arrangement had ties to officials of American Express .
The SEC noted that the issuer had received firm commitments from its underwriters for the offering , meaning that the underwriters bore the risks of any decline in the price of the stock just before the offering .
Neither American Express , Shearson , Salomon nor any individuals at those firms were charged with wrongdoing in connection with the Jefferies case .
Both the SEC and the U.S. attorney 's office said investigations of the offering are continuing .
Spokesmen for American Express and Salomon Brothers declined to comment .
The `` parking '' charges , while extensive , came as less of a surprise .
This newspaper reported last November that Mr. Jefferies was under investigation , and later disclosed that a $ 3 million payment from Ivan F. Boesky Corp. to Jefferies was being examined by the SEC as part of a suspected parking scheme .
That invoice , purportedly for `` investment advisory and corporate financial services , '' was identified yesterday by the SEC as an important part of the alleged parking scheme between Mr. Boesky and Mr. Jefferies .
The similar fraudulent invoice prepared by Mr. Jefferies in connection with the market manipulation scheme is entirely separate , the SEC alleged .
As alleged by the SEC , Boesky and Jefferies entities secretly held stock positions belonging to the other , and agreed to `` buy back '' the positions and reimburse each other for carrying costs and any losses incurred on the holdings .
Periodically , the two netted out the profits on the holdings , the SEC charged .
The agency charged that in one instance last March , involving a $ 27 million , 500,000-share position in G.D. Searle & Co. parked by Mr. Boesky with Jefferies , the price dropped about $ 7 a share , and Mr. Jefferies demanded that Mr. Boesky buy back the stake and repay him immediately for part of the loss .
Mr. Boesky did so , giving Mr. Jefferies the payment of about $ 3 million , and Mr. Jefferies in turn supplied Mr. Boesky with the phony invoice , the SEC charged .
The SEC charged that besides Searle , Mr. Boesky parked with Jefferies an $ 11.7 million , 810,000-share position in Cooper Laboratories Inc. and a $ 17.3 million , 600,000-share position in Southland Financial Corp. .
Mr. Jefferies , in turn , parked with Boesky entities positions in American Broadcasting Cos. , Ideal Basic Industries Inc. , ITT Corp. , Phillips Petroleum Co. , Pioneer Corp. and Texas Oil & Gas Corp. -- a total of $ 43 million in stock -- the SEC alleged .
As reported , the SEC is also examining a $ 5.3 million payment last March from Ivan F. Boesky Corp. to Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. .
After the payment was made and questioned by Mr. Boesky 's auditors , Drexel , a major securities firm , sent Mr. Boesky an invoice for `` consulting and advisory services . ''
The government is seeking to determine whether the payment was actually part of a parking arrangement involving Mr. Boesky and Drexel similar to the one between Messrs .
Boesky and Jefferies , according to persons familiar with the investigation .
Drexel has repeatedly characterized the payment as an `` investment banking fee '' and denied any impropriety .
Mr. Jefferies is understood to be providing new details about Drexel 's relationship with Jefferies .
At a news conference yesterday afternoon , U.S. Attorney Rudolph W. Giuliani said Mr. Jefferies will plead guilty `` in the very near future '' to a criminal violation of margin requirements and aiding and abetting the falsification of the records of a Boesky-controlled brokerage house .
He said it was Mr. Boesky who first implicated Mr. Jefferies .
As reported , Mr. Boesky has agreed to plead guilty to one felony charge for his role in the scandal .
Mr. Giuliani added that the relationship between the Jefferies case and the massive insider-trading scandal `` will become clearer in the next couple of weeks . ''
The SEC said that , among other provisions , Mr. Jefferies violated anti-fraud laws , disclosure requirements , books and record-keeping provisions , net capital requirements and margin requirements .
As the Justice Department 's charges reflect , willful violations of many provisions of the securities laws are criminal offenses .
While these laws have long been on the books , many on Wall Street have taken a cavalier attitude toward the more technical aspects of securities laws .
Peter H. Morrison , a partner in the New York law firm of Morrison Cohen & Singer , Mr. Jefferies ' lawyer , noted that Mr. Jefferies `` was accommodating customers .
He grew up in the business accommodating customers .
The rules are changing . ''
William Power contributed to this article .
Quaker State Oil Refining Corp. said it signed a $ 100 million revolving credit and term loan agreement with a group of six banks led by Mellon Bank , a unit of Pittsburgh-based Mellon Bank Corp. .
The credit agreement , the largest negotiated by the oil refiner and marketer , is mainly intended to meet the financing needs of Quaker State 's Minit-Lube unit , a chain of fast-lubrication service outlets .
The company expects to add 150 new outlets in 1987 at a cost of $ 75 million , doubling the total of 155 at 1986 's year-end .
The credit pact is a four-year revolving credit with an additional four-year term loan amortization agreement .
Interest rate options for Quaker State include borrowing at bank prime rates , the London Interbank Offered Rate , or at certificate of deposit rates .
Clorox Co. said Henkel KGaA plans to increase its Clorox common stock holdings to as much as 30 % from a current stake of 24.7 % .
Dusseldorf , West Germany-based Henkel will acquire the shares through purchases on the open market , Clorox said , and will n't increase its position beyond 30 % `` for the foreseeable future . ''
Clorox quoted the West German concern as saying Henkel views its holdings in the company as an investment , and has no plans to take an active role in Clorox management .
Henkel will continue to have two representatives on Clorox 's 15-member board .
A spokesman said Clorox views Henkel 's increased stake as `` a good development for the company and its shareholders . ''
He cited a joint venture the two concerns operate in Spain and technology exchanges between the companies as evidence of the `` close relationship '' between them .
Clorox is a grocery products concern that also makes paints , stains and products for the food-service industry .
Henkel produces household products and chemical specialties .
Henkel currently owns 23 % , or an indicated 6,102,000 , of Clorox 's 26.7 million common shares outstanding .
The West German concern also holds a subordinated note convertible into 600,000 common shares , or an about 1.7 % additional stake .
Clorox said the 30 % ceiling on Henkel 's stake would include the equivalent shares represented by the note .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading , Clorox closed yesterday at $ 61.50 , up $ 2.125 .
Longshoremen union chief Thomas W. `` Teddy '' Gleason will retire when his term expires in July .
The International Longshoremen 's Association , of which Mr. Gleason has been president since 1963 , said he will announce his retirement today at a meeting of the union 's 26-member executive council in Tampa , Fla. .
The ILA said its 86-year-old leader will recommend John M. Bowers , the union 's executive vice president , 61 , to be named as his successor .
One New York shipping industry source described Mr. Gleason as `` one of the toughest negotiators around , right out of the '30s . ''
The source suggested that if Mr. Bowers does replace Mr. Gleason , he will reign in the same manner , `` although he 's more low-key . . .
Bowers has been executive vice president for as long as Teddy has been president . ''
A third-generation dockworker , Mr. Gleason , a native New Yorker , first joined the union , which represents dockworkers on the Atlantic and Gulf coasts , in 1919 .
Through the years , Mr. Gleason led the union in several strikes resulting in negotiations that elevated the pay and benefits for longshoremen .
They now earn $ 17 an hour , or about $ 32,300 a year .
The New York Shipping Association called Mr. Gleason `` a forceful and effective advocate of the interest of his union members . ''
Nowadays , there are fewer longshoremen 's jobs .
The increased use of containerized shipping , where cargo is loaded into containers and then shipped directly to the destination , has eliminated much of the handling of cargo at the docks .
The local longshoremen 's membership in New York Harbor , as high as 31,574 in 1955 , has now shrunk to about 7,312 members .
For years , some of the union 's officials have been identified by law enforcement officers as members or associates of organized crime .
In 1981 , when Mr. Gleason testified before a Senate subcommittee investigating racketeering on the waterfront , he denied accusations that he was influenced by organized crime .
One of the high points in his career was in the mid-1960s , when Mr. Gleason helped the union negotiate a contract with guaranteed annual-income provisions .
In the latest round of negotiations , held in 1986 , the union was forced to accept wage concessions in order to be competitive with the growing number of low-cost nonunion stevedoring operations .
Under the 1986 contract , the union agreed to a wage freeze for the first two years .
James Kirk , director of the port department of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey , noted that the new ILA union leadership will contend with a membership no longer unified under a master wage contract .
In the latest round of negotiations , ILA union membership at different ports negotiated separate contracts .
For shippers , the regional differences in the ILA salaries `` will become a factor in the cost of doing business , '' Mr. Kirk said .
`` It changes the basic ground rules . ''
Most Americans feel that President Reagan is increasingly less relevant to the governing of the country , a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll indicates .
The nationwide survey , which was conducted from Sunday through Tuesday , suggests that Mr. Reagan 's recent efforts to reinvigorate his presidency have n't convinced people that he can regain his standing as a strong national leader .
Rather , many seem to regard him as being too uninvolved in decision making , and unlikely to change .
When the 2,153 adults in the poll were asked to choose who they thought will exert the most influence on the policies and decisions made in the White House during the next two years , Mr. Reagan finished third , behind new White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker and members of the cabinet .
Only 27 % thought Mr. Reagan would have the most influence over his own White House .
Moreover , most people do n't believe that Mr. Reagan is capable of changing his management style to meet the criticisms of the Tower Commission 's devastating report on the Iran-Contra affair .
Fully 56 % said the president is `` too set in his ways '' to change , while 40 % said he will alter his management style .
That finding follows Mr. Reagan 's efforts since the report was issued to show that he is taking command -- efforts that have included the replacement of former Chief of Staff Donald Regan with Mr. Baker , a nationally televised speech and the appointment of FBI Director William Webster to be director of central intelligence .
Despite all those steps , though , 54 % of those polled said Mr. Reagan does n't pay enough attention to major policy issues involving his administration , up from 46 % in January .
The poll was n't all bad news for the president .
Fifty-two percent of those polled say they look to Mr. Reagan for `` leadership on the direction the country is going . ''
And 65 % now believe that he is healthy and vigorous enough to be an effective president during the next two years , up from 60 % in a Journal/NBC poll in January .
But more than three-quarters of those polled think the president is n't as strong a leader now as he was during his first term , and a majority -- 54 % -- now say his performance as president is `` only fair '' or `` poor . ''
In January , 50 % gave him such unfavorable marks .
As in the January poll , Americans still believe by a 2-to-1 margin that Mr. Reagan is n't as fully in charge of his administration as he ought to be .
The public now is even less convinced that he is doing all he can to solve the problems created by the sale of arms to Iran : 46 % say yes , 49 % say no .
In January , 50 % said yes and 42 % said no .
However , 52 % do n't think he should resign even if it turns out that he knew about the diversion of funds to the Contras , while 41 % say he should .
There 's little good news for the president on policy matters , according to the poll .
His policy of aiding the Nicaraguan Contras remains very unpopular : 58 % disapprove , and 29 % approve .
And most say they want a budget compromise with Congress to reduce the federal budget deficit even if it results in a tax increase , which Mr. Reagan adamantly opposes .
The poll found that 53 % favor a compromise even if it includes a tax increase , while 40 % do n't favor such a compromise .
Mr. Reagan 's problems seem to have spilled over to the Republican Party .
Those polled are almost evenly divided about which party can best handle the nation 's economic problems and relations with the Soviet Union ; in the January poll , they gave the GOP a strong edge in both areas .
Republicans also have lost ground and now hold only a marginal advantage in the public 's rating of which party would better handle inflation and the federal budget deficit .
In foreign affairs , the poll shows , Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev 's public-relations efforts seem to have had an impact on Americans as well as Russians .
While most of those polled still do n't believe the Soviets can be trusted to live up to an agreement to relax tensions , the gap is narrowing .
Fifty-nine percent now say the Soviets can n't be trusted , while 32 % say they can ; in a similar Journal/NBC poll last October , the margin was 74 % to 16 % .
Nearly half say the arrival of Howard Baker as the new chief of staff makes an agreement on controlling nuclear arms more likely in the next two years , while 18 % think it will make an agreement less likely and 12 % think it will n't have any effect .
But there still has n't been any burst of public optimism that such an accord will actually be attained by the end of Mr. Reagan 's term .
More than three times as many people think such an accord is n't likely at all as believe it is very likely -- a ratio that is unchanged from last October 's survey .
' During the next two years , whom do you think will have the most influence on the policies and decisions made in the White House ? '
White House Chief of Staff Howard Baker 31 %
President Reagan 27 %
Not sure 7 %
' As you may know , the Tower Commission report on the Iran-Contra affair criticized some of President Reagan 's management practices within the White House .
Do you think Mr. Reagan will change his management style , or do you think he is too set in his ways to change ? '
Will change management style 40 %
Not sure 4 %
An investor group led by George Soros said it raised its stake in King World Productions Inc. to 8.1 % .
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , the group led by the New York investor said it holds 2,485,510 shares .
The group 's most recent transactions include purchases of 518,000 shares from Feb. 25 through March 6 at $ 18.924 to $ 21.203 each and sales of 19,200 shares from Jan. 8 through Jan. 9 for $ 16 to $ 16.25 each .
The group did n't say in the filing why it increased its stake in the Summit , N.J. , producer and syndicator of TV programs , including `` Wheel of Fortune . ''
King World shares fell 12.5 cents , to $ 21.75 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday .
Minnesota financier Irwin Jacobs leaves the office every day at 5:30 p.m. -- or 5:45 p.m. if necessary .
He does n't think hanging around the office late is a good idea , and he rarely works weekends .
But the chairman of Minstar Inc. , an investment group he controls , puts in a full day 's work nonetheless .
He reports to his desk at 7 a.m. each day , having already finished the morning newspapers and checked up on Europe through a call from his car phone .
Chief executive officers are a hardworking lot , but you may not know it by looking at them .
You may still be in bed when they 're getting their best work done .
A lot of CEOs , it seems , think they perform best before the sun comes up , the coffee wagon comes around , or subordinates come in with phone messages , memos and meetings .
Forty-hour weeks are rare for those at the top ; fifty and more hours are more the norm .
In a Wall Street Journal survey of chief executives of the nation 's largest corporations , nearly two-thirds said they worked between 10 and 11 hours a day , Monday through Friday .
Most of them also reported working on weekends ; nearly 60 % claimed between one and five hours of weekend work .
How do they cope ?
CEOs make time where they can find it .
They work in cars , trains and planes .
They mull strategy in the shower , plot planning by the pool .
Their hardest task : Finding time for themselves .
Mr. Jacobs gets up at 5:30 a.m. to get everything he wants done .
But he 's by no means the earliest bird among his peers .
Fred Carr , chairman of First Executive Corp. , awakens around 5 a.m. , and Gordon McGovern , president and chief executive of Campbell Soup Co. , routinely rises at 4:30 a.m. .
`` I grew up in the baking business where you get up early to deliver the bread , '' he says .
It is n't always easy .
Kenneth Monfort , chief executive officer of Monfort of Colorado Inc. , a beef packing concern , starts his day at 7 a.m. to get a jump on cattle futures markets , which are important for his business .
`` I 'm not a good waker-upper .
I can barely talk when I get up and I practice talking to myself on the way to work , '' he says .
By coming in early , chief executives avoid , for a time , the demands of the bureaucracy .
One problem : Too many other people are catching on to the trick .
`` I find I have emigrated to the country of breakfast meetings , '' says Robert B. Horton , chairman and chief executive of Standard Oil Co. , who until last April was a top executive at British Petroleum in London , where such meetings were unusual .
`` In London I would get to the office by 8 or 8:15 and have a full hour before the telephone rang .
Now I get in at 7:30 and I 'm lucky to have 15 minutes . ''
Traveling takes a big chunk of a CEO 's time .
Chief Executive magazine reports that its readers take , on average , 24 business trips a year .
`` In the past seven or eight months , I 've taken more than one airplane flight a day , on average , '' says Charles E. Cobb Jr. , chairman and chief executive officer of Arvida Disney Corp. , a unit of Walt Disney Co. .
B. Charles Ames , chairman and chief executive of Acme-Cleveland Corp. , averages just two days a week in the office .
The rest of the time he 's visiting facilities around the world .
Some recent visits included a plant near the Black Forest in Germany and one just outside London .
`` It 's very important to spend time in the field with the first-line people , '' he says .
Evenings are often work times , too .
`` When I leave the office , I often do n't go home , '' says James Sylla , president of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. , a unit of Chevron Corp. .
On Monday of one recent week he had a meeting in Tulsa ; on Wednesday he had dinner with a company management development team back in San Francisco ; on Thursday there was a reception and dinner for some Japanese contractors ; and on Friday he attended a dinner honoring retirees .
Tuesday night he goofed off and went to a ball game .
Some chief executives stop just short of making the office their home .
While he tries not to use his apartment at General Motors Corp. headquarters , Chairman Roger Smith does eat breakfast at work to save time .
Warren L. Batts , chairman and chief executive of Premark International Inc. , a Northbrook , Ill.-based maker of consumer and restaurant products , arrives early and exercises at the company .
Others bring part of the office home .
Mr. Cobb does long-term planning in the shower .
Paul Frison , president and chief executive at LifeCell Corp. , a medical supplies company in Houston , dictates memos while watching `` the more boring part of a baseball game . ''
And on weekends , he says , if he did n't do paper work by the pool , his wife and children `` would think I was ill . ''
Donald Frey , chairman and chief executive of Bell & Howell Co. , thinks about work problems while making cabinets , beds and tables at home .
He scribbles ideas down on nearby napkins or on shreds of newspapers .
Later , he says , `` I take these odd-looking pieces of paper with notes on them , and write them out nicely . ''
`` I deliberately live close to the office so I do n't waste a lot of time commuting , '' says Mr. Batts of Premark International .
Others turn the commute into part of the workday .
Mr. Horton of Standard Oil is driven to work from his home about 40 minutes east of the company 's Cleveland office ; the drive gives him `` more than an hour of productive time '' a day .
Samuel J. Heyman , chairman and chief executive of GAF Corp. , in Wayne , N.J. , commutes to work by helicopter from his Westport , N.J. , home , cutting the two-hour commute to a half-hour . -LRB- He picks up the tab himself . -RRB-
Most CEOs say they like their schedules .
`` I 'm thrilled to death that I 'm able to work , '' says Beverly F. Dolan , chairman , president and chief executive of Textron Inc. , who puts in a 10 1/2-hour workday .
`` Work is n't work as a negative .
Being able to work is a pleasure .
I truly enjoy what I do . ''
Dean Morton , chief operating officer of Hewlett-Packard Co. , agrees : `` Stress is caused by the things you have n't done -- not the things you 're doing . ''
But others , while they enjoy their work , feel there 's a lot of it .
`` I do n't feel overworked or overburdened , '' says David Kosowsky , chairman and chief executive of Damon Corp. , a medical equipment concern .
`` But sometimes I feel like I 'm always here . ''
A group including Robert R. Barker & Co. said it holds a 6.9 % stake in Moore-Handley Inc. as an investment .
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , the group including the New York investment partnership said it holds 173,100 shares of the Pelham , Ala. , hardware and building products distributor .
These include 65,000 shares purchased Jan. 19 through March 10 for $ 7.75 to $ 7.88 each .
Moore-Handley could n't be reached for comment .
The company 's shares rose $ 1 , to $ 8.75 , in national over-the-counter trading yesterday .
Gary Eder , formerly a top stockbroker at PaineWebber Inc. , pleaded guilty to criminal charges of conspiracy and creation of false brokerage records .
Mr. Eder , who resigned as a PaineWebber vice president last month , admitted in Manhattan federal court yesterday that he helped various wealthy customers of the firm hide at least $ 700,000 from the Internal Revenue Service .
Mr. Eder was indicted on the charges last week .
Attorneys for Mr. Eder strongly disputed the government 's characterization of the crime last week as a `` money-laundering scheme . ''
One attorney , Michael Feldberg , said the case was unrelated to insider trading or possible laundering of illegal profits .
He said Mr. Eder was only helping customers avoid paying taxes .
`` The acts occurred years ago before any of the current Wall Street hysteria , '' Mr. Feldberg said .
As part of a plea agreement , Mr. Eder , 41 years old , is cooperating in a continuing investigation .
The government said the money scheme occurred with the `` approval and participation '' of other PaineWebber supervisors at the branch at 1221 Ave. of the Americas in Manhattan .
In his appearance before federal Judge Edmund L. Palmieri , Mr. Eder said he `` absolutely '' was guilty of the two counts .
`` I 'd like to get these charges behind me and move forward with my life , '' he said .
Though he said he did n't profit directly from the scheme , Mr. Eder told Judge Palmieri that the series of transactions did generate extra brokerage commissions for himself .
Mr. Eder , of Woodmere , N.Y. , was PaineWebber 's most highly paid broker and its biggest producer , at any office , from 1982 to 1986 , according to the government .
Judge Palmieri released Mr. Eder on his own recognizance and set sentencing for May 27 .
Mr. Eder faces a maximum 10 years in prison and a $ 260,000 fine .
Separately , Bentley P. Whitfield , a former account executive and broker at Merrill Lynch & Co. , pleaded innocent in Manhattan federal court to mail fraud charges filed against him last week .
Mr. Whitfield , 31 years old , denied charges that he diverted $ 8,400 intended for Merrill Lynch to his own use .
Mr. Whitfield was released on his own recognizance pending a trial .
Life at the top is n't easy .
But life after life at the top poses problems , too .
The big question : What to do in retirement ?
Running a Fortune 500 company often is n't just a job , but a way of life .
At times exhilarating , at times numbing , it 's an endless series of meetings , of multimillion-dollar decisions , of 60-hour workweeks , of business breakfasts , lunches and dinners .
For some , retirement is a welcome and well-earned respite , a time to slow down and do things they never had time to do before .
But for others , a life of leisure is a life of boredom .
Indeed , many retired top executives return to business within six months , according to a 1984 study by Russell Reynolds Associates Inc. , an executive recruiting firm .
`` Leaving it all behind could be a blow to the ego if the individual has n't accepted the move , '' says David Merrill , who counseled executives before he himself retired from Rohrer , Hibler & Replogle , a consulting firm .
A glimpse at four former chief executive officers of Fortune 500 companies -- one who really has retired , one who is working as hard as ever , one who left corporate life abruptly at age 55 and one who is championing business solutions for social problems -- shows how different retirement can be .
On a recent winter day , the temperature hovered around the freezing mark in Pittsburgh , home of Westinghouse Electric Corp. .
But it was a balmy 75 degrees in the Naples , Fla. , area , home of Robert Kirby , the company 's 68-year-old retired chairman .
He got up at 6 a.m. , browsed through the newspaper , did the crossword puzzle and monitored his stocks .
After perusing his mail , it was out to the golf course adjacent to his spacious Spanish villa-style home for a four-hour round with friends .
In the late afternoon he returned home , taped some music -LRB- big band jazz is his favorite , and he has 3,000 tapes -RRB- and enjoyed a quiet dinner -LRB- hot dogs and baked beans -RRB- .
Then Mr. Kirby ended the day by plunking himself in front of the television to take in a basketball game and an America 's Cup yacht race .
Other chief executives may feel lost away from the hustle and bustle of corporate life , but not Mr. Kirby , who retired in 1983 after serving nine years as chairman of the electrical equipment and broadcasting concern .
`` I do n't miss it , '' Mr. Kirby says .
At Westinghouse , he put in 12-hour to 14-hour days -- often followed by business dinners -- and traveled frequently .
`` When you 're chairman , you have to do things when others want you to do it , '' Mr. Kirby recalls .
`` Down here , I set the schedule .
That , to me , is really great . ''
Mr. Kirby , planning for a life of leisure , bought his home in an exclusive enclave of Naples in 1981 .
`` I was really looking forward to being able to relax as much as possible and spend time on things I did n't have time to when I was working , '' he says .
That means golf at least four times a week and frequent dips in his outdoor swimming pool and backyard Jacuzzi .
And each year , to escape Florida 's steamy weather , Mr. Kirby and his wife , Barbara , spend summers at their home in Pittsburgh .
Of course , it is n't all the life of Riley for Mr. Kirby .
He stays active as a director of the Professional Golf Association tour , a director of Mellon Bank -- where , he notes , he keeps his money -- and chairman of the University of Pittsburgh 's board , among other things .
Still , he turns down invitations to serve on other boards , and his current obligations require only about 50 meetings a year -- far fewer than he had to squeeze into his hectic schedule before retiring .
`` I 'd rather wear out than rust out , '' declares Kemmons Wilson , the founder and former chairman of Memphis , Tenn.-based Holiday Inns Inc. .
When Mr. Wilson retired in 1979 from the company he started 27 years earlier , it was for all of three weeks -- and that was spent recuperating from a heart attack and open heart surgery .
Then it was back to work .
Now 74 years old , Mr. Wilson still puts in 12-hour days at Kemmons Wilson Co. , a company that he founded in 1935 and that his three sons run .
By the time he left Holiday Inns -LRB- currently named Holiday Corp. -RRB- , Kemmons Wilson already owned or had stakes in 25 businesses , from small hotel chains to cemeteries .
The entrepreneurial Mr. Wilson has expanded it by adding a nacho corn chip and jalapeno pepper dip company , a time share resort in Florida and a savings and loan association , among others .
`` I would go crazy if I did n't have anything to do , '' he says .
Most of the day-to-day operations are left to other executives or partners , but Mr. Wilson still keeps tabs on things .
He spends about six hours a day in his office sifting through mail , answering telephone messages and dictating letters .
Just like his old office at Holiday Inns , his new office has about 100 awards and plaques hanging from the walls and a large portrait of his mother hanging over his desk .
The rest of the time , Mr. Wilson visits his nearby businesses to check things out .
Strolling through his Wilson World hotel and conference center recently , he was constantly interrupted by onlookers wanting to shake his hand .
Mr. Wilson 's family was poor when he was growing up in Memphis , but today he is one of the city 's best-known citizens .
`` We call him Mr. Memphis , '' says Mayor Richard Hackett , who joined Mr. Wilson for soft vanilla ice cream .
Several months ago , Mr. Wilson took his first extended vacation since 1951 , and even that was just for six days .
But life is n't all work .
To relax , he goes hunting with his sons , plays tennis and joins the family 's weekly Sunday dinner gatherings .
His advice to other retiring chief executives ?
`` Get out and get another job as quickly as you can , '' he says .
`` You can n't play golf and make love all day . ''
Most chief executives retire in their 60s .
Archie McCardell retired -- unexpectedly -- at 55 .
When Mr. McCardell became chief executive of International Harvester Co. in 1978 at age 51 , there was every reason to think he would be around for a long time .
But after a lengthy strike and recession led to steep losses at the maker of farm equipment and trucks , Mr. McCardell left under a cloud in May 1982 .
Despite reports that he was ousted , Mr. McCardell says he left on his own accord .
`` I was relieved .
And I felt no bitterness , '' he recalls .
Still , for a while Mr. McCardell did n't know what to do .
Lacking any plans , he decided simply to relax and think things over .
For several months , he did n't do much more than sleep , jog and play golf and tennis .
He slimmed down , dropping 20 pounds .
In between the sports , he tended to his personal finances , setting up trusts for his three children .
He passed up opportunities to return to corporate life .
Soon after leaving Harvester -LRB- since renamed Navistar International Corp. -RRB- , for example , Mr. McCardell received offers to become chief executive at several companies .
`` I did n't see anything that turned me on , '' he recalls .
Six months after he retired , Mr. McCardell 's daughter , Sandy , and her husband asked him to go into business with them and his other two children .
`` We thought he was our greatest asset , '' remembers Raul Arcenas , the son-in-law .
Mr. McCardell accepted the offer , becoming chairman of ARM Properties Inc. , a residential real estate concern , and ARM Enterprises Inc. , a management firm that advises ailing small businesses .
At Harvester , Mr. McCardell put in 13 hours a day , spent evenings with a briefcase full of work and often took aspirin in the morning to relieve headaches .
`` There was no time to do anything other than work , '' he recalls .
At ARM , he usually works seven or eight hours a day , most of the time advising family members , who handle day-to-day operations .
He often takes off four or five days a month , which gives him plenty of time to commute between his ivy-covered mansion in Fairfield , Conn. , and homes in Florida , Canada and upstate New York , and to play golf and tennis .
Retiring early , Mr. McCardell now says , has worked out to his liking .
`` Do n't wait until you 're 65 , '' he advises other top executives .
`` Do it while you still have energy .
The older you get , the less flexible you are . ''
William Norris vividly remembers his last day as chairman of Control Data Corp. in January 1986 .
`` The day I walked out of my office , I felt a little tug in my belly , like when I left the -LRB- family -RRB- farm in Nebraska to take a job at Westinghouse Electric , '' he says .
`` It was the realization that an important chapter in my life had ended . ''
But not the last chapter .
A year after retiring , the 75-year-old Mr. Norris -- who founded Control Data in 1957 -- is still going strong .
Instead of beginning a second business career like many retired executives , however , Mr. Norris is pursuing his avocation -- preaching about ways that business can help solve America 's problems .
To spread his gospel , Mr. Norris is giving at least three lectures a month around the U.S. .
His favorite topics : how U.S. computer companies can combat foreign rivals -LRB- by sharing technology -RRB- , how America can create more jobs -LRB- by helping people start and grow small businesses -RRB- and how education can be improved -LRB- by expanding computer-based education -RRB- .
Mr. Norris 's proselytizing on these topics resulted in more criticism than praise when he was running Control Data .
Critics inside and outside the company contended that he was so busy promoting these issues that it distracted Control Data from its main business of selling computers , and resulted in losses in his final two years at the helm ; the company has axed many of his pet programs .
But now , though he remains a director of Control Data and is a consultant to the company , he can say what he wants without causing grumbles .
Because he operates out of a Control Data office across the street from the company 's headquarters in Bloomington , Minn. , much of his daily routine has stayed the same .
Still , some things are different .
`` He 's as busy as ever , but probably a little more relaxed , '' says Betty Jane , his wife for 43 years , noting that Mr. Norris has more time to swim , fish and go for walks .
`` He talks in his sleep less often than he used to .
I interpreted that as tenseness when the company was under a lot of pressure . ''
Ms. Watkins is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal 's Boston bureau .
The House Budget Committee approved a cutback of nearly $ 8 billion in military spending next year , indicating general concurrence with a $ 36 billion deficit-reduction proposal floated by Democratic leaders .
With Republicans abstaining , the Democrat-controlled panel voted 13-8 to set military outlays at $ 282.6 billion in fiscal 1988 , which begins Oct. 1 .
While that 's a $ 6 billion increase from this fiscal year 's spending , it 's a $ 7.9 billion reduction from the $ 290.5 billion the Defense Department would have to spend to keep pace with inflation .
The vote is a firm rebuke to President Reagan , who requested outlays of $ 298 billion , and it is close to the $ 9 billion reduction that House Speaker James Wright -LRB- D. , Texas -RRB- had proposed .
Rep. Wright is seeking a deficit-reduction package that would trim $ 9 billion from projected military spending , $ 9 billion from nonmilitary outlays and an $ 18 billion tax increase in fiscal 1988 .
Rep. Butler Derrick -LRB- D. , S.C. -RRB- declared the decision `` very close '' to the package that the Democrats have been considering .
It was supported by both Chairman William Gray -LRB- D. , Pa. -RRB- and House Majority Leader Thomas Foley -LRB- D. , Wash. -RRB- .
The military spending figure has been the most controversial and pivotal budget issue .
Conservative Democrats had been resisting so large a cut and , in turn , liberals had resisted trimming social programs until a significant military reduction was agreed to .
The most liberal and most conservative members of the budget panel voted against the figure .
But now that the majority sentiment has been expressed , the way is clear for approval soon of the entire $ 36 billion deficit-reduction package floated by the Democratic leaders .
The budget is a long way from completion , however .
Both the House and Senate must approve their own versions of a deficit-reduction plan and then reconcile the two .
The Senate is likely to want a far higher military spending number than the House panel approved yesterday .
As illustrated by the split vote in the committee , House approval might also involve a fight .
Republicans , who were protesting the entire process by refusing to vote yesterday , could gang up with conservative Democrats to create problems for any budget resolution that sharply cuts the military .
In addition , the military spending figure voted yesterday was tentative and might be adjusted later should the Democratic leadership devise a substitute plan .
COUNTRYWIDE CREDIT INDUSTRIES INC. , Pasadena , Calif. , a mortgage banking concern , declared a 2 % stock dividend payable April 17 to stock of record March 31 .
It also declared a cash dividend of eight cents a share payable April 14 to stock of record March 30 .
The company , which previously paid a dividend of seven cents a share Jan. 7 , said it has set no quarterly cash dividend amount .
Countrywide also distributed a 2 % stock dividend last year .
First Financial Management Corp. said it offered to buy Comdata Network Inc. , a Nashville , Tenn.-based money transfer concern , for cash and stock valued at $ 18 a share , or $ 342.7 million .
First Financial , noting that Comdata has signed a letter of intent to be acquired by a New York venture capital concern in a $ 285.6 million transaction , said it would n't pursue its proposal if it is n't accepted by Comdata directors .
A Comdata spokesman said the company had no immediate comment on the offer .
Under terms of the offer , Comdata holders would receive half a share of First Financial common for each Comdata share , provided that the market value of First Financial is n't less than $ 28 a share , said First Financial , a provider of data processing services and products .
The cash portion would be determined by the average market price of First Financial shares during the period shortly before completion of the transaction .
The formula is designed to limit the cash portion to no more than $ 4 per share , a First Financial spokeswoman said .
M. Tarlton Pittard , First Financial 's executive vice president and chief financial officer , said the company would give only stock for Comdata if its average market price equals or exceeds $ 36 a share .
He said the exchange ratio would remain at half a share for each Comdata share should First Financial 's average share price exceed $ 36 .
As previously reported , Welsh , Carson , Anderson & Stowe , the New York-based venture capital concern , proposed to buy Comdata for cash or a combination of cash and securities .
Under that proposal , holders would receive either $ 15 in cash or $ 10 and a unit of securities for each of Comdata 's approximately 19 million common shares outstanding .
The proposal was subject to conditions , including Welsh Carson obtaining as much as $ 200 million in financing .
The Welsh Carson proposal supplanted a Comdata recapitalization proposal , under which Comdata would have purchased as many as six million of its common shares for $ 14.50 each .
Comdata shares closed yesterday at $ 16.375 , up $ 1.625 , in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange .
Volume was more than one million shares .
First Financial shares closed at $ 29.75 , down $ 1.50 , in national over-the-counter trading .
A group led by Rosewood Financial Inc. , a Dallas investment firm , holds 6.2 % of Comdata stock and had opposed the recapitalization plan .
A spokesman for Rosewood did n't return a phone call .
First Financial said it made an offer at this time in order to allow the Comdata directors to evaluate its offer and the Welsh Carson proposal .
`` FFMC believes its proposal affords greater value to the Comdata shareholders , '' the company said .
The proposed transaction would be subject to approval of a definitive agreement by the boards of both companies , fairness opinions from the companies ' investment bankers and the approval of Comdata holders , First Financial said .
AERO SERVICES INTERNATIONAL INC. said directors suspended the dividend for its fiscal second quarter on its Series A convertible preferred stock because of poor earnings .
The 24-cent dividend would have been payable April 1 on 346,000 Series A preferred shares .
The Teterboro , N.J. , company provides fueling , maintenance and other services for aircraft .
Including losses from discontinued operations , the company posted a net loss of $ 103,000 on sales of $ 17.4 million for the first quarter ended March 17 .
NRM ENERGY CO. L.P. is offering eight million of $ 2 cumulative convertible acquisition preferred units at $ 18 each .
Beginning in 1992 , each unit is convertible into 5.5 common shares at $ 3.27 a share , Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. , head underwriter , said .
The Dallas-based oil and gas partnership said it will use the proceeds mostly to acquire oil and gas interests .
In trading on the American Stock Exchange yesterday , NRM common closed unchanged at $ 3.50 .
The ringing phones .
The three-hour board meetings .
The drop in earnings .
It 's all part of the stress-filled life of the chief executive officer .
But how is a frazzled CEO to vent his frustrations at work and still maintain an air of grace under pressure ?
Some executives share their secrets for letting off steam :
Quotron Systems Inc. Chairman Milton E. Mohr likes to skip out on his troubles -- literally .
When tension rises , the 71-year-old executive retires to a small room adjoining his office , where he skips rope .
His attire ?
`` I change into an athletic supporter .
Period . ''
A half-hour of aerobic activity lets Mr. Mohr get away from the business of running a financial information-services company and allows him a little privacy ; he says his secretary has n't once walked in on him during 25 years of rope-hopping .
After the Spartan regimen , which includes several sets of sit-ups and push-ups , Mr. Mohr likes to ease back into the heat of executive battle at Quotron -LRB- which was acquired last year by Citicorp -RRB- by cooling off reading a newspaper .
`` To have a little blow-up now and then is OK , '' says Peter M. Hoffman , president of Los Angeles-based Carolco Pictures Inc. , the movie company that produced the Rambo films .
`` It puts you on the animal level , as it were , '' says Mr. Hoffman .
Unlike most of his peers , the 37-year-old executive , who suffers from a self-described `` marginal nervous stomach condition , '' is quick to admit that he 'll yell at someone who pushes him too far .
`` We try to have an open attitude here so people can go a little nuts or act weird .
We 're in the movie business .
We 're more relaxed . ''
Bring the Mountain to Mohammed
Eli Broad describes his passion for art collecting as `` an educational and emotional experience . ''
The chairman of Kaufman & Broad Inc. , who was also the founding chairman of the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art , has a personal art collection of about 200 works and a corporate collection of about 600 .
So when Mr. Broad , 53 , needs to let off a little steam , he simply strolls the halls of the home-building and insurance company to admire the paintings , wall reliefs and posters by Southern California artists .
`` Although I live with this art , '' he explains , `` if I want to feel good and relaxed , I 'll start looking at the paintings . . . and get my mind off the business problem before returning to it . ''
When H.J. Heinz Co. 's Anthony O' Reilly needs a break from the problems of the present , he turns to the past .
The 50-year-old former rugby player from Dublin says he likes to pick up a history book and read a bit when things get too hectic at the office .
Currently Mr. O' Reilly is tackling a biography of William Gladstone , the 19th century British prime minister .
The chief executive also tells jokes to ease tension in the board room , and history is often the source .
One of his favorites : During World War II Winston Churchill reported that `` the position '' in England was serious but not hopeless , `` and an Irishman listening said , ' The position in Ireland was always hopeless , but happily never serious . ' ''
When running a chain of restaurants from her Beverly Hills , Calif. , home gets too hectic for Marilyn Lewis , she pampers herself .
`` Getting my hair done or having my nails done relaxes me , '' says the 56-year-old chairman of Hamburger Hamlets Inc. .
A beauty break is n't always the best medicine for the athletic executive , however .
`` You 're sitting there on borrowed time , and it emphasizes what you have n't done . ''
Grandma always said to take your nap .
It 's something Armand Hammer has n't forgotten .
When the 88-year-old chairman and chief executive of Los Angeles-based Occidental Petroleum Corp. wants to relieve stress at the office , he catches 40 winks .
`` I have a pillow and a blanket in my closet , '' says Dr. Hammer .
`` I pull the curtains and I take a nap for 15 or 20 minutes . ''
Paul Oreffice is rarely more than arm 's length from a chinning bar .
The 59-year-old head of Midland , Mich.-based Dow Chemical Co. has chinning bars fastened in doorways at his two homes , and in his office closet .
But he does n't use the bars for chin-ups : `` I just hang . ''
Mr. Oreffice says 30 seconds of hanging by the arms helps relieve the tension that builds up in his neck and back .
He also likes to extend his legs and strengthen his thigh muscles while sitting at his desk , an isometric exercise he learned from physical therapists who helped him recover from an old football injury .
Even during lengthy board meetings , the six-foot , 180-pound executive remains active , tightening and releasing his stomach muscles .
`` The great thing about isometrics is that nobody else knows I 'm doing it . ''
He says the stress-relieving exercises come in handy `` particularly during boring presentations . ''
Andy Granatelli says that when he 's confronted with a stressful situation at work , he simply tells himself that things are n't nearly as bad as they seem .
The 63-year-old former race car driver now owns and operates a chain of automobile service shops across the Southwest called Tuneup Masters .
The bright side outlook keeps him from getting overheated when he 's caught in Los Angeles rush-hour freeway traffic .
`` I could get upset .
But I say , ' Look .
All these motors are running now , and their motor oil and engines are running down .
They 'll need tuneups soon . ' ''
... And Look Both Ways Before You Cross the Street
Martin S. Davis sums up his approach to stress-reduction : patience .
`` There 's stress everywhere. . . .
You cross the street and it 's stressful .
So you have the patience and you wait for the light to change , '' says the 59-year-old chairman and chief executive of New York-based Gulf & Western Industries Inc. .
Mr. Davis says he does n't let himself get worked up over business problems .
`` Part of the job of managing is managing stress , '' he says .
`` You learn to have patience , and you can handle anything . ''
`` There was a time earlier in my career when I took myself too seriously , '' says William J. Popejoy , 48 .
`` When things went wrong , I was quicker to lash out . ''
Now when the chairman and chief executive of Irvine , Calif.-based Financial Corp. of America finds stress getting the better of him at work , he simply sits back and recalls the more light-hearted moments in his life .
`` A little bit of laughter can relieve stress , '' he says .
Mr. Popejoy was named chairman and chief executive of Financial Corp. , holding company for American Savings & Loan Association , the nation 's largest thrift , in 1984 after Charles W. Knapp resigned the posts under intense pressure from federal regulators .
Mr. Popejoy reminisces about the letters that flooded his office after he appeared in a television commercial for the thrift .
`` One letter said , ' You have old-time star-like qualities -- like Rin Tin Tin . ' ''
He says memories of college athletic days are also good for a chuckle .
Mr. Popejoy remembers one buddy who got `` so hyper '' before his event at a track-and-field meet that when he went to take off his sweatpants `` he took down everything '' -- in front of hundreds .
Why not just face facts and relish the tooth-grinding , blood-pumping states of stressful bliss ?
`` I thrive on it , '' says Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs , who has used the company he heads , Minstar Inc. , to wage takeover battles against such hefty targets as Borg-Warner Corp. and AMF Inc. .
While some people like to avoid stressful situations , the 45-year-old executive says , `` I think of it as a way of life . ''
He adds , however , that he and his colleagues `` probably create more stress -LRB- for others -RRB- than we have '' ourselves .
Mr. Jefferson is a member of The Wall Street Journal 's Los Angeles bureau .
DOW CHEMICAL CO. said it will issue New Zealand dollar-denominated bonds valued at about $ 56 million at current exchange rates .
The Midland , Mich.-based chemical concern said the two-year bonds will have a floating interest rate that will not be less than 17 % .
Proceeds will be used to refinance other high-cost debt .
Bear , Stearns & Co. and Smith Barney , Harris , Upham & Co. will be the managing underwriters .
RJR Nabisco Inc. said it will bring back J. Paul Sticht , former chairman and chief executive officer , as chairman .
The appointment was made to provide a stabilizing influence , sources said .
RJR has been rocked by change since the beginning of the year , when F. Ross Johnson , president , was named chief executive officer .
Mr. Sticht , 69 years old , retired as chairman in 1983 and is currently an RJR director and chairman of the executive committee .
He will succeed as chairman J. Tylee Wilson , 55 , who , as previously reported , is taking early retirement .
The change is expected to take effect after a board vote on April 22 , the date of RJR 's annual meeting .
RJR said Mr. Sticht will be chairman until April 1988 , when , under company retirement policies , he will step down at age 70 .
The company said the appointment of Mr. Sticht , who would focus on the company 's external affairs , would free Mr. Johnson to concentrate on running the business .
RJR said the appointment was suggested by Mr. Johnson .
However , the move came as a surprise to those who had considered Mr. Johnson the likely successor to Mr. Wilson .
Mr. Johnson , 55 , had already taken swift control of the company , engineering the controversial impending move of its headquarters to Atlanta , completing the $ 1.2 billion sale of its liquor business and launching a study of a possible spinoff of RJR 's tobacco business into a master limited partnership .
But neither analysts nor sources close to the company said they thought Mr. Sticht 's appointment was designed to put the brakes on Mr. Johnson -- -or to affect his management of the company .
`` Paul Sticht will be a statesman .
He will n't be active in management , '' said an executive close to the company .
`` Ross Johnson is n't exactly a stabilizing influence in a new situation .
Paul Sticht is .
When the alligators are in the boat , he makes you feel very calm , keeps his hand on the tiller and the boat on course . ''
The appointment of Mr. Sticht , who was first named chairman in 1979 , could be a calming influence on RJR 's tobacco business , which in the last three months has been shaken both by management changes and by the possibility of the spinoff .
It could help smooth relations with the Winston-Salem community , which has also been badly shaken by RJR 's impending move .
The move was n't seen as a sign of board conflict .
Mr. Johnson has had the support of the board and of Mr. Sticht , so powerful a director that some say he has been unofficial chairman all along .
This is n't the first time Mr. Sticht has been plucked from the board to serve in a larger role .
In 1973 , a year after having retired as president of Federated Department Stores Inc. , he was named president and chief operating officer of R.J. Reynolds Industries Inc. , where he was already a director .
That positioned him to subsequently become the first non-tobacco chief executive of the company that became RJR , and he oversaw its first surge of diversification .
This time , Mr. Sticht 's new duties will include trade , customer and government relations , and he will be chairman of a council of advisers on the company 's international affairs .
Mr. Johnson was vice chairman and chief executive officer of Nabisco Brands Inc. when it was acquired by R.J. Reynolds for $ 4.9 billion in 1985 .
He became president and chief operating officer of the merged company .
In other changes , RJR named Mr. Johnson chairman of the executive committee , succeeding Mr. Sticht .
James O. Welch Jr. , chairman and chief executive of the company 's Nabisco Brands Inc. unit , was named vice chairman of RJR , a title he shares with Edward A. Horrigan , chairman and chief executive of R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. Robert J. Carbonell , formerly executive vice president of RJR , was named senior executive vice president .
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. placed ratings on single-A-1 senior debt , single-A-2 subordinated debt , single-A-1 preferred stock and provisional single-A-1 shelf registration debt of this bank holding company under review for possible upgrading .
About $ 1.1 billion of securities are affected .
Moody 's cited Providence , R.I.-based Fleet 's proposed merger with Norstar Bancorp and the positive effect it could have on Fleet 's core deposit base .
PUBLIC SERVICE CO. OF INDIANA said it will issue a $ 35 million 7.6 % first mortgage bond , series NN , due March 15 , 2012 , to Princeton , Ind .
It said the bond serves as collateral for $ 35 million of pollution control bonds being issued by Princeton at the same interest rate .
The Plainfield , Ind.-based utility said proceeds from the issue will be used to redeem all Series B pollution control bonds previously issued by the city at 12 3/4 % .
The bonds are being redeemed at a price of 102 April 1 .
The company said it expects to save about $ 1.8 million a year by reducing interest costs .
A group that owns 6.5 % of GenCorp Inc. 's stock suggested that the Akron , Ohio-based company spin off all of its non-broadcasting assets to shareholders and refuse to pay greenmail to any raider .
The spinoff proposal is the reverse of one that GenCorp 's management made several years ago to spin off GenCorp 's broadcast properties .
The investment group , which includes New York-based Gabelli Group Inc. , is one of two groups to make a Securities and Exchange Commission filing this week regarding GenCorp , a tires , plastics , aerospace and broadcasting concern .
The Gabelli group advocates the spinoff as a way to `` materially narrow the spread between the public price of GenCorp 's shares and the underlying value . ''
The Gabelli filing was made just prior to a surprise tender offer for GenCorp 's shares .
As previously reported , a group including AFG Industries Inc. , an Irvine , Calif.-based glass maker and distributor , and Wagner & Brown , a closely held Midland , Texas-based oil and gas concern , said in an SEC filing Wednesday that they had acquired 9.8 % of GenCorp 's stock and had launched a $ 100-a-share tender offer for the remainder .
However , the $ 2.2 billion offer is conditioned upon GenCorp withdrawing a `` poison pill '' anti-takeover defense and Federal Communications Commission approval of a voting trust arrangement for the broadcast properties .
The AFG group said it would sell GenCorp 's radio and television properties , its soft-drink bottling businesses and the Aerojet General aerospace and defense division .
According to the Gabelli SEC filing , the group requests that one of its representatives be elected to the GenCorp board to advance the spinoff proposal .
The group said it first raised the proposal at a GenCorp meeting with securities analysts last month , but has n't had a private meeting with GenCorp management to discuss the issue .
The Gabelli group proposes that shareholders be precluded from selling shares to the company without prior approval by a shareholder vote .
The group said that would eliminate a chance of greenmail , `` which is repugnant . ''
Greenmail refers to a company buying back its shares at a premium from an unwanted suitor .
GenCorp has said it is studying the tender offer and urged shareholders to withhold a decision until March 31 .
A GenCorp spokesman said the company is aware of the Gabelli filing , but did n't have an immediate comment .
The company for years has been puzzling over what to do with its broadcast properties .
Several years ago , management considered spinning off its broadcast business to end disputes over licenses , but the FCC did n't accept that remedy .
Licenses for two of GenCorp 's three television stations and all 12 radio stations have been under challenge for two decades .
Challenger groups allege that GenCorp is an unfit broadcaster because the company failed to adequately inform the FCC of allegedly improper campaign contributions and foreign payments .
According to the Gabelli filing , the group 's most recent GenCorp stock transactions included purchases of 482,000 common shares Jan. 12 through March 5 at $ 71 to $ 87 each and sales of 89,556 shares Jan. 26 through March 17 at $ 71 to $ 89.636 each .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , GenCorp shares rose $ 2.50 to close at $ 109 .
MMR HOLDING CORP. , based in Baton Rouge , La. , sold 1.1 million common shares in its initial offering at $ 13.50 each , said William Blair & Co. , head underwriter .
Proceeds will be used to increase working capital and pay debt , the electrical and mechanical specialty contractor said .
American Nuclear Corp. said it received a $ 24 million preliminary contract to remove uranium mill tailings from an abandoned mill site in Riverton , Wyo. .
The tailings , which are residue from uranium ore in a milling operation , will be moved to American Nuclear 's licensed tailings disposal facility in central Wyoming , the company said .
The project will be jointly funded by the U.S. Energy Department and the state of Wyoming .
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has amended American Nuclear 's license to permit the removal , according to the uranium exploration and development concern .
American Nuclear said the contract is subject to , among other things , a final agreement to insure that the relocated tailings will be stabilized in accordance with federal regulatory standards .
The contract also is expected to provide assurance that the Energy Department will n't assume liability for the disposal site or for material in it that is n't from the abandoned Riverton mine .
CANADA NORTHWEST ENERGY LTD. said it plans to raise $ 32.5 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- through a private placement of preferred shares .
The oil and gas company said the issue involves one million shares with a stated value of $ 32.50 each , and with an annual dividend rate of 5.4 % .
Proceeds will be used on exploration and development in Canada over the next two years , it said .
The shares will be issued on a `` flow-through '' basis , which provides the purchaser with certain tax advantages under Canadian law , the Calgary , Alberta , company said .
It added that the shares will be redeemable after a specified period at a price of $ 25 each plus accrued dividends .
The shares are also convertible into common at a conversion price of $ 32.50 a share .
MERIDIAN INSURANCE GROUP INC. is making its initial offering of 1.5 million common shares at $ 12 each , the Indianapolis , Ind.-based insurance company said .
Underwriters led by Prescott , Ball & Turben Inc. have been granted an option to buy an additional 225,000 shares to cover over-allotments , Meridian said .
Proceeds will be used to increase insurance underwriting capacity , it said .
Cineplex Odeon Corp. said it agreed in principle to acquire all shares of Walter Reade Organization Inc. from a unit of Coca-Cola Co. .
Cineplex , one of North America 's largest theater operators , said the price consists of $ 22.5 million cash and 652,742 common shares .
Cineplex valued the shares at $ 10 million .
Cineplex is 50 % -owned by MCA Inc. , a real estate and entertainment concern that owns Universal City Studios .
Walter Reade , New York , owned by Entertainment Holdings Inc. , itself a unit of Atlanta-based Coca-Cola , operates an 11-screen theater circuit at eight locations , all in Manhattan .
The transaction is subject to board and regulatory approvals .
Cineplex also said that RKO Century Warner Inc. , a New York unit , will sell its lease for an eight-screen theater complex on Long Island to Loews Corp. for $ 17 million .
The price is subject to adjustment .
The transactions will be completed concurrently , Cineplex said , but it did n't indicate a closing date .
Cineplex added that Garth Drabinsky , chairman , president and chief executive officer , and Myron Gottlieb , vice chairman and chief administrative officer , each purchased 750,000 new common shares for $ 17.50 -LRB- Canadian -RRB- each , or an indicated $ 26.2 million .
Their total holdings in Cineplex were n't immediately available .
Prior to the transactions reported yesterday , Cineplex had 15.9 million shares outstanding .
Cineplex shares rose 12.5 cents , to $ 21.875 , in Toronto Stock Exchange trading yesterday .
Pay-Fone Systems Inc. said Lewis Greenwood , chairman and president , agreed in principle to sell his 30.2 % stake to a company controlled by a dissident director .
Mr. Greenwood , the 61-year-old founder of the company , said terms of the sale of his 447,600 Pay-Fone shares to Allied Contractors Inc. call for Mr. Greenwood to resign as chairman , president and a director of the computerized accounting services concern .
Pay-Fone said successors in Mr. Greenwood 's corporate posts and as a director have n't been named .
Richard Kelton , 57-year-old president of closely held Allied Contractors , was one of two dissident shareholders elected to Pay-Fone 's five-member board last month after a proxy contest .
Allied Contractors is a Santa Monica , Calif.-based real estate development , construction and management concern .
Mr. Kelton said in a statement that he was `` gratified '' that an agreement was reached with Mr. Greenwood , but a spokesman said he was n't available for further coment .
The spokesman said the Pay-Fone board would meet tomorrow to vote on the proposed transaction between Messrs .
Greenwood and Kelton .
Their agreement made the transaction subject to approval of shareholders other than Messrs .
Greenwood and Kelton .
Mr. Greenwood said he agreed to sell his shares for $ 6.50 each , or a total of $ 2.9 million .
He said that he had attempted to negotiate a sale of his stake at $ 5 a share to Mr. Kelton a year ago , but that those negotiations had collapsed in November .
In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange yesterday , Pay-Fone shares closed at $ 5.50 , up 12.5 cents .
L. Luria & Sons said it agreed in principle to be the exclusive supplier of merchandise sold through a game and home-shopping show being considered by a `` major television network . ''
L. Luria said a final agreement is subject to several conditions , including approval of the show by the network and approval of Luria 's board .
The company , which operates retail catalog showrooms in Florida , declined to name the network or elaborate on the possible terms of an arrangement .
L. Luria said the game show under discussion does n't involve Home Shopping Network Inc. .
As reported , Clearwater , Fla.-based Home Shopping is planning to launch a game show in June featuring merchandise that can be purchased by television viewers .
In American Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , L. Luria shares closed at $ 14.875 , up $ 1.375 .
A series of lawsuits by former Duff & Phelps Inc. employees have made the credit rating firm the subject of a local tabloid scandal .
The lawsuits were filed in federal district court in Chicago by workers who left the employee-owned firm before its shares were acquired in a buyout .
The suits assert that Duff & Phelps violated various securities laws in its handling of the buyout , which paid $ 2,000 a share .
The suits ask that the departing employees , who had to sell their shares at a far lower price when they left the firm , be compensated for the difference .
The suits are in the news again because a Chicago federal appeals court this week ordered a jury trial for one of suits , which the lower court had dismissed .
The appellate court opinion by circuit Judge Frank H. Easterbrook recounts an embarrassing tale of how Duff & Phelps 's former controller , Carol Franchik , was able to swing a different arrangement when she left the company .
According to the court opinion , Ms. Franchik was fired after the company 's board was told she was involved in an affair with Claire Hansen , Duff & Phelps 's chairman .
When Ms. Franchik threatened a sex-discrimination suit over the firing , the board agreed to make an exception to an existing company policy that departing employees must sell their shares back to the company , said a plaintiff 's attorney , James S. Gordon , who cited depositions by board members .
Ms. Franchik kept her 300 shares and later sold them for the full buyout price of $ 2,000 apiece , or a total of $ 600,000 .
The former employees who are suing sold their shares for less than $ 150 each .
Mr. Gordon , the attorney for plaintiff Paul Much , asserted in his opening argument that Ms. Franchik had access to inside information because of her alleged affair with Mr. Hansen .
In testimony , Ms. Franchik acknowledged a personal relationship with her former boss .
Mr. Hansen testified that he told directors he was n't having an affair .
Mr. Hansen declined to comment on the suits .
Ms. Franchik could n't be reached .
The suits have drawn considerable attention in the Chicago business community .
Ms. Franchik has appeared on the front pages of local newspapers wearing a fur coat with a turned up collar as she exited the courtroom .
The publicity could build further with the appellate court 's decision .
The appeals court sent the suit of James S. Jordan , a former Duff & Phelps analyst , back to the lower court for trial , saying that as a shareholder in a private company Mr. Jordan should have been privy to information Ms. Franchik apparently had .
The lower court had said in granting summary judgment that the employer had no duty to inform Jordan about the buyout talks .
There have been no court decisions on the other employee suits .
According to the appellate court opinion , Mr. Jordan quit the Chicago-based company in November 1983 and went to Houston because of tension between his wife and his mother , who also lived in Chicago .
`` Our position is that Mr. Jordan would 've never left when he did had he been told about the negotiations and the chance that he could 've made more than $ 600,000 instead of $ 23,000 , '' said Thomas Ward , his lawyer .
When Mr. Jordan left Duff & Phelps , he owned 188 shares and was making installment payments on another 62 .
The appeals court apparently agreed with Mr. Ward and Mr. Jordan .
`` Difficulties with a mother-in-law are a strain , but families bear strains greater than that for the prospect of financial gain , '' wrote Judge Easterbrook .
Iomega Corp. , citing lower-than-anticipated revenue , said it expects to report a first-quarter loss of more than $ 10 million .
The maker of data-storage devices for personal computers said also it has reduced its revenue expectations for 1987 and anticipates a loss for all of 1987 .
The company did n't provide revenue projections or specific figures on the expected loss .
Iomega 's loss in its first quarter , which ends March 29 , will put the company in default under the requirements of its bank line of credit , unless the requirements are modified .
The company said it is `` exploring alternatives '' for raising additional funds through a debt or equity financing .
An Iomega official said sales of an older-model disk drive have tapered off as customers await the newer model .
The company expects to return to profitability by the fourth quarter , he said .
In 1986 , Iomega had net income of $ 6.4 million , or 42 cents a share , on sales of $ 125.9 million .
Net included a $ 1.3 million tax benefit .
The company recently announced it will receive a qualified opinion from its auditor because of litigation it faces .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , Iomega shares closed at $ 3.125 , down $ 1.125 .
Is $ 9.1 billion enough for Pennzoil Co. ?
Last month , a Texas appeals court panel affirmed $ 9.1 billion of Pennzoil 's $ 11.1 billion judgment against Texaco Inc. .
The court 's only modification in the whopping award came in its reduction of punitive damages to $ 1 billion from $ 3 billion .
The ruling was widely viewed as favorable to Pennzoil and the company at the time expressed `` delight '' and `` gratitude '' at the fact that the court upheld the overwhelming part of the award .
In a recent filing in the appeals court , however , Pennzoil asked the court to reinstate the full $ 3 billion in punitive damages .
Pennzoil said its request was in part a formality that would preserve its right to the full award when Texaco appeals the judgment to the Texas Supreme Court .
But Pennzoil also stated that it thinks it has a right to every penny of the original award it won when a jury found that Texaco unlawfully interfered with Pennzoil 's merger agreement with Getty Oil Co. when Texaco acquired Getty in 1984 .
`` I 'm not in the habit of giving away $ 2 billion , '' said Joe Jamail , Pennzoil 's chief counsel ; `` $ 2 billion here , $ 2 billion thereafter a while it begins to add up . ''
Mr. Jamail said that even when the reduction of $ 2 billion in damages is taken into account , the judgment now totals $ 10.3 billion when the accrued interest is included .
But Texaco contends that by seeking to have the $ 2 billion reinstated , Pennzoil had signaled its refusal to comply with the appeals court ruling .
And as a result of what it calls Pennzoil 's `` conditional compliance , '' Texaco has moved that the entire case should be retried in a lower court .
`` Some states say you can n't have your cake and eat it too , '' said Russell McMains , a Texaco attorney who specializes in appellate procedures .
Texaco acknowledged that it was attacking on a highly technical point that is n't clearly settled in Texas law .
But the latest skirmish clearly indicates the intensity of the dispute between the two companies , with Pennzoil scrambling for every cent it can get , and Texaco pursuing every legal remedy it can muster .
`` We will plow every field , '' said Mr. McMains .
Lawyers not directly involved in the case also said that Texaco appeared to be taking a chance on a long shot .
`` It sounds to me like the ' grasp at any straw ' approach to the situation , which is where Texaco is at this point in the case , '' said Frank W. Morgan , a lawyer here who formerly was associate general counsel for Gulf Corp. , now a Chevron Corp. unit .
`` It sounds highly technical . ''
Texaco 's latest legal attack is based upon the language buried on page 161 in the appellate panel 's opinion .
The court conditioned the denial of Texaco 's motion for new trial upon Pennzoil 's agreement to voluntarily drop $ 2 billion in punitive damages from the judgment .
Pennzoil at that point indicated it would readily comply with the appellate court ruling .
Pennzoil later filed a document called a remittitur in which it agreed to drop $ 2 billion -- but it also made known its reservations .
In the document , Pennzoil said it reserved the right to seek a rehearing on the reduction in damages .
Subsequently , Pennzoil filed a motion for rehearing of the punitive damages issue , contending that the court had `` erroneously applied the Texas law , and inappropriately embraced '' certain principles of New York law , which was also used in the case .
Pennzoil 's Mr. Jamail contended that Texaco 's latest move to have the judgment overturned was a sign of the company 's desperation .
`` If they had a good case , they would n't have to reach this deep into the barrel , '' said Mr. Jamail .
`` It 's ludicrous . ''
Texaco acknowledged that its latest legal attack was out of the ordinary , but said that was n't surprising considering the high stakes involved in the case .
`` Since there 's never been a judgment of this size before , I suspect that anything is unusual , '' said Mr. McMains .
SUNSHINE MINING CO. said it expects to report a widened fourth-quarter loss of about $ 35 million , reflecting depressed prices for oil , gas and precious metals .
G. Michael Boswell , chairman of the Dallas-based concern , said the loss includes about $ 14 million in nonrecurring charges for , among other things , asset write-downs and anticipated costs of reopening closed mines .
The company reported a loss of $ 22.1 million for the year-earlier fourth quarter .
Revenue for the latest quarter is estimated to have dropped 48 % to $ 31.5 million from $ 60.2 million a year earlier .
The House Ways and Means Committee , continuing work on trade legislation , approved provisions to enhance benefits to workers displaced by imports and to provide new sanctions for U.S. firms against dumped or subsidized imports .
But the panel put off until next week consideration of more controversial proposals that would require retaliation against certain unfair trade practices by foreign countries and limit presidential discretion in resolving trade disputes .
And Rep. Richard Gephardt -LRB- D. , Mo. -RRB- said he was considering waiting until the legislation moves to the House floor before fighting for his highly charged amendment to force trade retaliation against countries that have huge trade surpluses with the U.S. .
The committee worked all day yesterday behind closed doors on a bill offered by its chairman , Rep. Dan Rostenkowski -LRB- D. , Ill. -RRB- .
Rep. Rostenkowski 's proposal , which was approved by a Ways and Means subcommittee last week , is viewed as less protectionist than the legislation introduced earlier this year .
One provision approved by the committee yesterday would increase retraining benefits for workers whose jobs are lost because of imports .
It also would set up a voucher system for payment of these benefits .
The committee toughened provisions for dealing with foreign companies that repeatedly `` dump '' goods -- or sell them at unfairly low prices -- in the U.S. .
It provided for expedited action on dumping complaints against foreign companies and took steps to make it easier for U.S. companies to bring civil suits against foreign manufacturers .
The panel voted to drop a proposal to establish criminal penalties for dumping violations , however .
The panel also voted to give the Commerce Department new powers to prevent firms from circumventing anti-dumping orders by shipping their products in parts or through a third country .
The committee voted to transfer the authority to determine whether an industry is entitled to protection from imports to the U.S. trade representative from the president .
Some lawmakers believe that the trade representative would be more inclined than the president to rule that an industry is being hurt by imports .
Such an injury finding can trigger the imposition of tariffs or quotas on the imports .
Under the panel 's bill , an import-battered industry would be required to devise a plan to return to competitiveness before it could receive such import relief .
But even dying industries could qualify .
The Reagan administration has argued that an industry should be required to demonstrate that it can survive before it can receive such protection .
Rep. Gephardt , a presidential candidate , told reporters yesterday that he was determined to push for his amendment , which is designed to force such countries as Japan to reduce their large trade surpluses with the U.S. Rep. Rostenkowski 's proposed bill significantly watered down the proposal .
It simply would require the administration to negotiate with the other country , rather than forcing the president to retaliate immediately .
`` My concern with that approach is that it does n't give a standard of accountability , '' Rep. Gephardt said .
`` I still think I can pass this amendment on the House floor . ''
Meanwhile , a House banking subcommittee approved legislation forbidding foreign firms from becoming primary dealers in U.S. government securities unless their governments give U.S. companies the same right in their countries .
Three banks in Texas and Montana were closed , bringing the number of bank failures this year to 47 , more than twice the number at the same time last year , the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said .
The banks -- Red River National Bank in Clarksville , Clarksville , Texas ; Sweeney Bank , Sweeney , Texas ; and Clarks Fork National Bank , Fromberg , Mont. -- will reopen today as parts of other institutions .
The two offices of Red River National , closed by the U.S. Comptroller of the Currency , are to reopen as branches of State Bank of DeKalb , DeKalb , Texas .
The failed bank had assets of $ 22.6 million and held $ 22.5 million in 4,700 deposit accounts .
Sweeney , closed by state banking officials , is to become a branch of First State Bank of Louise , Louise , Texas .
Sweeney had assets of $ 17.7 million and held deposits of $ 17.6 million in 4,800 accounts .
Seventeen banks have closed in Texas so far this year .
Clarks Fork National , also closed by the Comptroller , was bought by Yellowstone Bank , Laurel , Mont .
Customers of Clarks Fork National will automatically become customers of Yellowstone and will be able to conduct business at the failed bank 's office briefly .
But that office will eventually close because Montana law does n't allow banks to operate branches .
Clarks Fork National had assets of $ 8.2 million and held deposits of $ 7.8 million in 1,500 accounts .
It was the first Montana bank to fail this year .
Chief executives routinely deal with millions of dollars of other people 's money .
But how do they deal with their own ?
A glimpse of how top executives handle their personal pocketbooks is offered in interviews with the heads of four companies : James A. Cook of Porsche Cars North America Inc. , John P. Imlay Jr. of Management Science America Inc. , Joel B. Leff of Forstmann Leff Associates Inc. and John C. Merritt of Van Kampen Merritt Inc. .
These men earn salaries of $ 200,000 to $ 400,000 a year , exclusive of any bonuses .
As a condition of discussing their personal finances , however , they asked that details of their earnings and their spending habits be kept confidential .
There are striking similarities in the way these executives run their financial lives .
One is an aversion to plastic .
All maintained that , even before they became successful and wealthy , they paid cash for purchases , or else paid credit-card balances in full each month to avoid interest .
Each also has an accountant and some have other financial advisers , but none uses a financial planner .
Most said that they had made it a habit to save regularly , even before a fat paycheck made saving a relatively easy task .
`` I 'm much more professional about what I do for Porsche than about what I do for myself , '' says Mr. Cook , CEO of Porsche Cars North America in Reno , Nev .
His company is 100 % -owned by Porsche AG , the European car maker , which in turn is largely family owned .
So Mr. Cook , 59 years old , holds no stock in his own employer .
He does own other securities ranging from speculative penny stocks to more middle-of-the-road equities .
But he prefers to invest mainly in `` things that I do n't need to look at every day . ''
Buying individual stocks makes him nervous because `` if I go to Europe for two weeks , things can happen . ''
In the past , he has favored real estate , mainly as a partner in apartment and hotel ventures .
In light of the new tax law 's harsher treatment of most real estate investments , he says , `` I 'll be phasing that out . ''
He expects to increase his holdings of mutual funds and to maintain , but perhaps scale back , his sizable portfolio of municipal bonds .
Mr. Cook and his wife -LRB- both of whom were previously married -RRB- have seven children .
When the kids reached driving age and wanted cars , Mr. Cook at first insisted that they should pay half the cost of a car .
The result was that the cars purchased were `` junkers . ''
Later on , Mr. Cook says , he relented and decided to buy his children `` decent cars . '' -LRB- The autos are n't Porsches , however . -RRB-
He still requires the children to pay for their own gasoline and insurance .
`` Some people would say , ' Gee , you can afford to do that for your kids . '
Well , I guess we could .
But this is one way to teach them responsibility . ''
For financial advice , Mr. Cook turns to the accountant who has served him for many years , and who is soon to become a lawyer as well .
That takes some doing , since the accountant is in Houston -LRB- where Mr. Cook used to live -RRB- and Mr. Cook is in Reno .
`` We started out together , '' Mr. Cook explains , `` and he 's done a good job . ''
John Imlay is chief executive of Management Science America , an Atlanta-based software and data-processing firm he took public in 1981 .
Most of his net worth consists of stock in his own company , but he has other investments .
An array of tax-free bonds is the core of this portfolio .
Then there 's timberland and farmland , mostly in Georgia .
`` I go walk the land '' before buying , Mr. Imlay says .
`` I do n't care how excited -LRB- the sales people -RRB- are .
When you sink into it up to your knees , you know how good it is . ''
Mr. Imlay , 50 , also owns stock in other companies .
`` I invest in people , '' he says .
Many of his stocks were chosen because he was impressed with a company 's executives during business dealings .
Ever since he made $ 300 a month as an office-form sales trainee fresh out of school , Mr. Imlay says , he has followed the `` sage advice '' of his father and invested 10 % of his gross income .
His capsule version of his dad 's advice : `` Put down the alligator shoes and invest the money . ''
Like his father , he pays cash for most purchases .
He disdains credit cards but uses a debit card occasionally .
In addition to a checking account and a cash management account with a brokerage firm , he still has a passbook savings account .
Asked why , he says he 's never gotten around to closing it .
`` It 's so small it did n't make any difference . ''
Mr. Imlay used to use a financial planner , but decided he did n't need one since `` I was making the decisions anyway . ''
He relies on his own tax adviser , who is also the company 's secretary-treasurer .
Joel Leff is co-chairman of the New York-based money-management firm , Forstmann Leff Associates , a subsidiary of Guinness Peat Group PLC .
He likes to tell the story about a Wellesley College 20-year reunion .
One woman , the story goes , showed up in a provocative red dress , high heels and cigarette holder .
Picking up clues to a disreputable vocation , her classmates asked her what had happened .
`` It was either that , '' said the woman , `` or dip into capital . ''
Mr. Leff , 51 , professes a strong dislike for dipping into capital , and says he has done it only once , during the horrendous market of 1974 .
Recently married for the third time , he says he found it somewhat easier to control household expenditures during the years when he was on his own .
He and his wife take turns paying the bills .
A `` very conservative '' investor , Mr. Leff says he keeps much of his money in municipal bonds rated double-A or higher .
A smaller amount is in stocks , he says , because `` I just do n't do it as well for myself as I have for clients .
I get too emotionally involved . ''
He says his favorite investment has always been real estate , mainly commercial buildings , often with a historical-renovation aspect -LRB- and tax advantage -RRB- to the deal .
Despite the new tax law , he expects to keep investing in real estate , but will demand a higher anticipated rate of return before entering any deal .
He also invests in art , antique furniture , and gold coins .
Gold , he says , is `` traditional and feels nice .
It weighs more than 100 shares of IBM . ''
For financial advice and record keeping , Mr. Leff says he has `` enough henchmen , '' including an accountant , a tax attorney , and a full-time personal bookkeeper .
As CEO of Van Kampen Merritt , the Lyle , Ill.-based investment banking subsidiary of Xerox Corp. and a leading packager of municipal bond unit trusts , Jack Merritt hardly needs an allowance .
When he was a youth , however , his father kept him on a strict one .
`` In my senior year of high school , my father put me on an annual salary and made me get my own checking account , '' the 46-year-old Mr. Merritt says .
That arrangement continued into college .
`` I had to go out and work .
I ran a laundry business and raked leaves , '' he recalls .
He 's making similar demands of his own children .
`` It 's very important to learn to live within your means . ''
To manage his money these days , Mr. Merritt , who is based in Philadelphia , gets some help .
He uses several brokers , and likes to `` give them some discretion . ''
He prefers bonds to stocks , avoids commodities , and likes real estate .
He is , not surprisingly , partial to mutual funds and unit investment trusts .
`` If you 're running a firm , I do n't feel you have time to mastermind your investments , '' he says .
In addition to several checking accounts and a money market fund , he still keeps an old-fashioned savings account .
The reason ?
`` To be fair to the bank , '' Mr. Merritt says .
In exchange for good banking service , he feels it 's only reasonable to allow the bank a dollop of low-cost funds .
`` I believe generally in working with one major supplier , '' he says .
`` They 're entitled to get some compensation back for their service , provided they 're offering good service . ''
Mr. Dorfman reports on personal finance from The Wall Street Journal 's New York Bureau .
Mellon Bank Corp. , the nation 's 12th largest banking concern , said it will reduce its work force in an effort to cut costs and boost productivity .
The bank holding company declined to estimate the extent of the staff cuts .
It said in a prepared statement that the cuts are a result of an ongoing internal study of the concern and its staffing levels .
Mellon said the review will be completed `` over the next several weeks . ''
The company has been troubled by a growing number of nonperforming foreign and energy loans .
In addition , its expenses have grown at a faster pace than those of banks of comparable size .
In 1986 , Mellon 's earnings fell 9.1 % to $ 183.3 million , or $ 6.20 a share , from $ 201.7 million , or $ 7.13 a share , in 1985 .
At the end of 1986 , Mellon had 18,419 employees , with 8,800 in its corporate headquarters in Pittsburgh .
Mellon took a fourth-quarter charge of $ 9 million to restructure its foreign lending operation , including closing several offices and laying off or transferring workers .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , Mellon closed at $ 55.375 a share , down 50 cents .
The `` power '' office is out .
For the lean , mean '80s , a chief executive officer can still have good furniture and some appreciating art on the walls , but the bottom line is function .
How times have changed .
In the early '50s , when Elliott White Springs built a headquarters for his textile company in Fort Mill , S.C. , he wanted it to be the most modern building in the world , and his office was a high-tech wonder .
With a touch of a button , the chief executive of Springs Industries Inc. could elevate a portion of the walnut parquet floor until it became a conference table .
Other buttons on his desk opened and closed the 120 feet of draperies ; turned on the television , radio or movie projector ; activated the security system ; operated the lights ; and vibrated Mr. Springs 's chair .
Springs 's current chief executive , Walter Y. Elisha , prefers a different office , about half the size and without gadgetry .
His reasons for occupying more modest quarters have little to do with the fact that his company is now public , as opposed to Mr. Springs 's era .
`` I find the less elaborate , more functional office better suited to my style , '' Mr. Elisha says .
Mr. Elisha 's inclinations reflect a general trend in recent years away from lavish , grandiose offices for chief executives .
`` Chief executives consider what they do in their offices rather than just the looks of them .
They want to make it clear they are working executives , not just figureheads , '' says William Drake , a partner at the architectural firm Skidmore Owings & Merrill in Chicago .
`` There used to be much more ceremony involved in entering the CEO 's office .
You walked 20 feet to the grand , old man , behind this huge mahogany desk empty of papers .
That 's a thing of the past . ''
Top executives do n't want to blend completely into the paneling : they still prefer large , corner offices and such traditional trappings as private bathrooms .
But , in general , they do n't want to seem either intimidating or overly opulent .
Communication -LRB- with employees -RRB- and accountability -LRB- to shareholders -RRB- are the buzzwords .
In these takeover times , a too-lavish office just might signal a bloodthirsty raider that there 's a profitable opportunity to trim corporate fat .
`` Some clients do want a palace .
But heads of public companies mostly tell us they do n't want the office so nice that people walk in and think , ' Aha !
This is where all the money is going , ' '' says Karen Myers , president of Interior Design Development in Costa Mesa , Calif. .
The new headquarters of American Express Co. in New York 's World Financial Center is quite grand , and Chairman James D. Robinson III 's paneled office boasts an inlaid marble table , antiques and an Oriental rug .
But decorator Robert Metzger remembers Mr. Robinson saying over and over , `` This item costs too much .
Find something else . ''
Indeed , big offices may be one factor that spurred raider T. Boone Pickens Jr. 's move against Diamond Shamrock Corp. Former Chief Executive William H. Bricker enjoyed lavish perks that included several corporate jets .
His office in the company 's Dallas headquarters is said to be enormous .
A Diamond Shamrock spokesman says , `` The offices are quite comfortable but there are no extraordinary appointments or architectural features . ''
As for Mr. Pickens 's own office at Mesa Limited Partnership in Amarillo , Texas , `` We practice what we preach , '' he says .
`` I have a good , workable , functional desk and a computer .
There are three western paintings on the wall , but two of them are for sale because they 've appreciated in value .
My office is about 20 feet by 18 feet , and I 've had the same office on the fifth floor of a 10-story building for 20 years . ''
There are plenty of other leaders setting a no-frills example : The Silicon Valley aesthetic remains spare .
Gordon Moore , co-founder of Intel Corp. in 1968 and currently its chief executive , still occupies a standard issue , metal and plastic desk in a cubicle whose walls are no higher than anyone else 's .
He has a special chair , a spokesman says , `` but that 's because he has a bad back . ''
In New York 's financial community , where lavish offices are the standard , John Gutfruend of Salomon Brothers Inc. spends much of his workday at a semicircular wooden desk on the trading floor .
Nearby is a large , private office to which he retreats for meetings .
Martin S. Davis , the chairman of Gulf & Western Inc. , says , `` Everything in my office has got a purpose .
There are enough chairs for people to meet in and enough tables to work on .
Most of the furniture , including my antique desk , is my own and I 've had it for years .
It 's a workspace : that 's what I 'm about .
It 's not an entertainment hall . ''
Some executives who inherited large , imposing offices from an earlier era have taken great pains to make them cosier .
John J. Creedon , president and chief executive of Metropolitan Life Insurance Co. , moved into a 22-foot by 34-foot office of 13-foot high walnut paneling four years ago .
`` It 's a lot more than I need , and if I were to build one it would n't be this big , '' Mr. Creedon says .
Rather than greet visitors from behind his huge desk , Mr. Creedon prefers to sit in an armchair near a large , comfortable couch .
Seated nearby is one of his two plush , business-suit-clad Snoopy dolls . -LRB- Snoopy appears in commercials for the insurance company . -RRB-
`` When I 'm sitting behind my desk , it might intimidate people , '' Mr. Creedon says .
`` Here , we can sit with Snoopy , get comfortable , and maybe people will relax . ''
G. Robert Truex Jr. , chairman of Rainier Bancorp. in Seattle , describes his office as `` traditional , handsome and over-large , which makes me uneasy .
I 'm not a high-powered guy and I do n't pretend I am . ''
Mr. Truex encourages people to relax from the moment they arrive at his door , walking across a `` Beware of Owner '' doormat .
Inside his office , visitors find an array of music boxes and a vast collection of wind-up toys on the bookcases and credenza .
Peeping out between the leaves of a potted palm is a plush gorilla in a red T-shirt and a paper crown .
`` I 've been known to say that he makes the big decisions around here , '' says Mr. Truex , who hastens to add : `` Please do n't get the impression that because I have these toys that I come to work in a clown hat .
We conduct business here . ''
For all the plush menagerie , tradition nonetheless remains one of the bywords in executive offices , both in furnishings and decorative mementoes , which are meant to convey a sense of stability and longevity .
Donald Frey , chairman of Bell & Howell Co. of Chicago , moved his company to a modern building in 1985 , but in his office he sits at the rolltop desk once used by the company 's founder , Albert S. Howell .
His telephone is Mr. Howell 's 1919 brass candlestick phone , which has been electronically refurbished .
`` In the last three years or so , there has been a return to more conservative environments , '' says Beverly Russell , editor of Interiors magazine .
`` Inside many ultramodern skyscrapers rising 50 floors , the chairman 's office looks like Monticello . ''
Indeed , the look of paneled walls , Oriental rugs and antique wood desks has become so prevalent that some chairmen have rebelled in an effort to stand out , and to send a message of distinctiveness .
`` We have a new and creative company but we also want to convey solidity , because we guarantee billions of dollars of debt , '' says Gerald Friedman , chairman and founder of FGIC Corp. , which insures municipal bonds .
FGIC 's offices are n't quite like anything else in Manhattan 's financial district : sleek and modern , with black marble tables , black lacquer desks and decorative curtain-like cascades of white silk strings from floor to ceiling .
Not surprisingly , there are still executives who love their perks and power offices .
George Wackenhut of Wackenhut Corp. in Coral Gables , Fla. , a big firm in the security guard field , is n't the only chief executive with a barber chair in his private bathroom , so his barber can come to him .
In Houston , a city of impressive offices , it 's hard to forget that of J. Hugh Liedtke , chairman of Pennzoil Co. , who sits at the head of a 16-foot long desk made of planks from a shipwreck .
Behind the desk in a large display case is his rock collection , including geodes the size of basketballs .
In the name of intimidation , who could better the tactic of a chief executive who asked one design firm to install very bright , adjustable lights above the chairs across from his desk ?
The designer , who will n't divulge his client 's name , says : `` The CEO could really make a guy sweat . ''
Ms. Cox reports on arts and entertainment from The Wall Street Journal 's New York bureau .
Boyd L. Jefferies helped change the rules of the securities game .
But by breaking them , he has damaged the reputation of what is probably the most innovative and aggressive stock-trading firm outside of Wall Street .
The question now is how deep and lasting the damage will be .
Jefferies Group Inc. , the 445-employee brokerage holding company of which Mr. Jefferies was chairman and chief executive officer , was stunned by his early morning announcement that he planned to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating federal securities laws and that he was resigning .
After Mr. Jefferies 's personal announcement to those employees over a national telephone hookup following its normal 4:50 a.m. PST planning meeting , the brokerage firm locked the elevators at its Los Angeles headquarters for a time .
Within hours , the company 's new chief executive , Frank Baxter , was taking calls , forcefully arguing that Jefferies would survive and prosper .
`` They call this Jefferies Group for a reason , '' said Mr. Baxter , a 13-year veteran with the company .
`` We have 190 professionals with personal client relationships . ''
The chairman 's post remained vacant .
Despite yesterday 's travails , he added , `` it was a good day businesswise .
Our clients really came through for us . ''
Jefferies is by far the biggest trader in the so-called `` third market , '' in which listed stocks are traded without going through an exchange .
Such trading has grown rapidly with the bull market , and as big shareholders looked for fast and discreet ways to profit from the increasingly volatile world securities market .
Jefferies , a company Mr. Jefferies founded 25 years ago , in 1986 accounted for about 3 % of the composite volume of all securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange .
Last January , the company traded about 2 % of the Big Board composite trading volume , or 164 million shares , for clients that have ranged from pension funds and individual shareholders to major Wall Street arbitragers .
Jefferies makes up about 60 % of the entire third market .
Mr. Baxter , 50 years old , who has been president and chief operating officer of Jefferies , said the January percentage was lower than last year only because the exchanges did extraordinarily heavy volume during the month .
Mr. Jefferies , 56 , publicly denied that he had engaged in insider trading when he was subpoenaed last year in the government 's broad investigation of the securities business .
Part of a clubby network of major players in the stock market , however , he succumbed to the temptation to swap illegal favors with some clients , including arbitrager Ivan Boesky .
`` Boyd has always wanted to accommodate clients , '' said Mr. Baxter .
Mr. Jefferies declined to be interviewed .
In a statement , he said : `` Something went wrong in our value systems and it is vital that we all learn from my mistakes and those of others . ''
Mr. Jefferies has been a spirited trader who seemed more at home on his company 's trading desks than its executive offices .
His workday started as early as 3 a.m. , and often ended late -- though Mr. Baxter said trades attributable to Mr. Jefferies have accounted for less than 5 % of the company 's volume in recent years .
Mr. Jefferies had a large following among takeover investors , who relied on him to assemble large blocks of stock during corporate battles .
Raiders liked trading with Mr. Jefferies because he moved unusually quickly and secretly and had a big network of contacts among arbitragers and other speculators in takeover stocks .
`` You felt like Jefferies 's trades had to go through less layers of people , '' said Harold Simmons , a Dallas financier who often traded through Mr. Jefferies .
`` He could move without disturbing a lot of people , and the fewer people who know about these things the better . ''
Like many people , Mr. Simmons described Mr. Jefferies as a driven , intense worker .
`` He was always at his desk .
You could always reach him ; he worked very long hours , '' Mr. Simmons said .
He recalled that Mr. Jefferies tracked him down in the middle of a tennis game to try to negotiate the sale of a large block of NL Industries Inc. stock last summer , when Mr. Simmons was seeking control of NL. Mrs. Simmons staved Mr. Jefferies off until her husband finished his game .
Some people think Mr. Jefferies 's suspension will be a blow to the firm .
Perrin Long , a securities industry analyst at Lipper Analytical Securities Corp. in New York , estimated that more than one-third of the firm 's business is directly attributable to Mr. Jefferies 's contacts with wealthy investors and institutions .
Mr. Long , a longtime acquaintance of Mr. Jefferies , described the trader as exceptionally intense .
`` Some people are compulsive drinkers or compulsive woman-chasers .
Boyd was a compulsive trader , '' he said .
`` Whenever I sat with him at his offices -- which had glass windows so he could look out at the trading room -- you could sense he 'd like the conversation to end as quickly as possible so he could get back onto the trading desk . ''
In the 1960s , there were many dealers in the third market , where trades were often made for lower commissions than exchange members charged .
When commissions were later deregulated , many firms dropped out of the business .
`` They were survivors , '' one Los Angeles broker said yesterday of the Jefferies firm .
Mr. Jefferies actually sold the company in 1969 to Investors Diversified Services Inc. , now a unit of American Express Co. , for $ 44.2 million .
But he bought it back four years later -- for less than half that price , according to associates -- and then took the company public in 1983 .
Over the past decade , two important trends expanded Jefferies 's business : the growing internationalization of markets and the rise of the takeover business .
Suddenly , a firm that could make difficult block trades efficiently at unusual hours was in an enviable position .
Mr. Jefferies `` gained a world-wide institutional following , '' said Gordon Macklin , president of the National Association of Securities Dealers , which regulates the over-the-counter industry , of which Jefferies was a part .
Mr. Jefferies became celebrated for virtuoso trading feats .
In December 1982 , during a sudden halt in Big Board trading in Warner Communications Inc. , Jefferies & Co. , Jefferies Group 's brokerage unit , made an almost exclusive market in Warner shares for about a day .
Working round the clock with traders in Australia , Hong Kong , Kuwait , Switzerland and other places , the firm traded 3.5 million shares in two days .
The message was n't lost on the Big Board , which soon opened a vigorous public-relations campaign against off-board trading , and Jefferies in particular .
More recently there has been speculation that Jefferies might again be sold .
American Can Co. began acquiring Jefferies stock in 1985 , and it currently has the equivalent of a 20 % stake in the firm .
Yesterday , an American Can spokesman described his company 's holding as a `` passive investment . ''
Mr. Jefferies controls about 13 % of the company , but his interest will be placed in a voting trust for at least the next five years , during which Mr. Jefferies will be barred from the securities business under a consent agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission .
`` I 'd be incredibly surprised if he is n't back in the business someday , '' said Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs , a friend and business associate of Mr. Jefferies .
From what he had heard about the violations , they seemed `` more technical than criminal , '' Mr. Jacobs said .
Half joking , he added : `` You and I get a parking violation , and we get a $ 3 ticket . ''
Until last year , Mr. Jefferies lived in a huge oceanside house -- later sold for a reported $ 8.3 million -- that had a circular bed that rotated 360 degrees to take advantage of the view .
He has given heavily to the arts , and has two galleries named for him in a Laguna Beach , Calif. , museum .
A spokesman said Mr. Jefferies currently lives in the Palm Springs area , about 100 miles from Los Angeles .
The executive has commuted to work almost every day , leaving his home at 1:30 a.m. in a chauffeur-driven limousine , according to the spokesman .
After attending college at the University of California , Los Angeles , Mr. Jefferies went to work as a cattle manager at a family-owned ranch in Arizona .
He got his start in the securities business with a small brokerage firm in 1956 .
Secrecy has been a major attraction of third-market firms .
Jefferies has routinely identified clients only by a number or letter code to protect their identity .
`` There is a legitimate confidentiality function .
You never raise the curtain between client A and client B , '' said Wade Ambrose , vice chairman of Westlake Village , Calif.-based Jones & Associates Inc. , the third-largest trader in the third market .
Referring to his competitor 's problems , Mr. Ambrose said , `` If anything , our business will be improved . ''
Despite publicity about Jefferies 's role in accumulating and trading stock during takeover battles -- often during periods when the exchanges have halted trading -- less than 10 % of the company 's volume has come from takeover-related business , according to Mr. Baxter .
He said Jefferies has diversified into areas such as convertible bonds and cash management for corporate clients .
Howard Marks , managing director of Trust Co. of the West , a Los Angeles investment manager , said his firm recently began using Jefferies in its trading of convertible debentures .
`` This will n't affect our dealings with the firm .
I can only believe this is an isolated instance and not pervasive in Jefferies , '' he added .
Professional basketball players are thrilled to be elected to the NBA all-star team .
Baseball players exult at inclusion in the Hall of Fame .
So , how does Coca-Cola Co. 's chairman and chief executive officer , Roberto Goizueta , feel about being named Advertising Age 's 1986 Adman of the Year ?
`` That 's the good news , '' he says .
`` The bad news is that last year 's was Roger Smith -LRB- the beleaguered chairman of General Motors -RRB- .
The media made him a hero ; now they 're making him a goat . ''
Perhaps the point is , as Mr. Smith told this newspaper recently : `` I was n't as good as they said I was two years ago , and I 'm not as bad as they say I am now . ''
Or perhaps the point really should be to examine the very idea of chief executives as heroes : Are they or are n't they ?
Should they or should n't they be ?
If so , whose heroes should they be -- shareholders ' or society 's -- and are the two mutually exclusive or compatible ?
It 's difficult to put a finger on precisely when or exactly why this idea of the CEO as hero emerged .
I mean , they rarely hit anything out of the park , you can n't dance to anything they do , and they certainly do n't risk their lives to save anybody .
Somehow , though , I suspect Lee Iacocca is heavily mixed up in current thinking on the subject .
When Chrysler Corp. was down for the count , Mr. Iacocca took a page from the lives of Joe Namath and Muhammed Ali -LRB- both bona fide heroes -RRB- , and went before Congress to stage the corporate equivalent of personally guaranteeing he would beat the Colts , while simultaneously taunting Sonny Liston .
When Chrysler got up and staggered back to its corner to continue the fight , the modern chief executive hero was born .
Forget that the turnaround at Ford Motor Co. is in many ways a more impressive business achievement ; how many Americans can identify Donald Petersen ?
It would n't have worked , of course , if Mr. Iacocca were ugly or poorly spoken .
This is truly the media age , a time when there is a place to print or a time to broadcast the most inconsequential doings of anyone remotely deemed to be a `` public '' person , as long as he has a little style .
A friend , for example , recently suggested an idea for a nationally syndicated local cable TV show to be called `` Lifestyles of the Nouveau Riche and Not Famous Until Now . ''
And I would n't be surprised to see it catch on .
Not that Mr. Iacocca 's business achievements were without substance .
But who could 've foreseen that his coup would inspire some guy to buy an electric shaver company , invade our living rooms with commercials about how much he likes the shavers and then write a book starring himself as the CEO hero ?
Probably anyone who could 've predicted that Vanna White would grace the cover of Newsweek .
Somewhere in all this , that question of style vs. substance looms large .
Allen H. Neuharth , the chairman and former CEO who built Gannett Co. into a media giant , is often interviewed about how he shaped the company and how he created USA Today .
But he 's also often asked why he only wears black and white and has black toilets in white bathrooms -LRB- he wears gray now in his eminence -RRB- .
He says it 's just for convenience and to keep from mismatching socks and ties and such .
But we do n't believe him , do we ?
This is a matter of style that one suspects he picked up from some role model -LRB- is there a little Hugh Hefner in this eccentricity ? -RRB- .
And it leaves him open for detractors who can n't find anything wrong with his P/E ratio to say things like : `` You can n't tell where the sharkskin ends and Al begins . ''
Mr. Neuharth is one who relishes corporate heroism .
He was thrilled to sit in George Washington 's church pew recently and receive the Poor Richard Club Gold Medal , placing him alongside the likes of Walt Disney , Dwight Eisenhower , Gen. David Sarnoff , William Paley , and , of course , Lee Iacocca .
Yet he concedes that many of his peers do n't share such feelings .
`` Of the CEOs I know very well , the majority have been inclined to not want much public recognition , '' he says , perhaps because `` most surveys seem to indicate that the public does n't hold them -LRB- CEOs -RRB- in very high esteem . '' -LRB- Or is it because the currency of celebrity has been so incredibly debased ? -RRB-
In any case , as Coke 's Mr. Goizueta notes , most people do n't have any idea what the substance of a CEO 's job is anyway .
`` Everyone wants to know ' What are you going to buy next ?
What are you going to sell ? , ' '' he says .
`` That 's what they think a CEO does today .
The media like to focus on singular acts , like changing the -LRB- Coke -RRB- formula .
This is a huge company to run .
But if we tell them we 've had a 25 % compounded return since 1981 compared to the prior 10 years ' return of less than 1 % , they do n't care .
It 's not sexy . ''
He 's right , of course , it 's not -- unless you 're a shareholder .
And even then you 're more likely to think of the CEO as having done what you pay him enormously well to do , rather than as your hero .
Where it gets really confusing , though , is with the new breed of CEO/investment banker or `` asset player . ''
It 's hard to embrace as heroes the folks who have made America 's corporate landscape `` more efficient on a yield basis '' by dismantling or gobbling up all manner of companies without regard to synergy , or even compatibility , much less such intangible concepts as employee loyalty .
The sole goal and product of their effort is money .
They do n't produce anything for society .
They do n't run companies ; they own them .
Then they sell them and buy some more .
And the marketplace confirms their belief that money conquers all .
But they do appear to be the `` heroes '' if not the soul of the future .
Surveys at the nation 's elite business schools show that most future MBAs aspire to `` investment banking '' or `` mergers and acquisitions , '' as opposed to such mundane pursuits as `` manufacturing . ''
Now if you follow such things , think about this : What 's the difference in the way you feel after you learn that your favorite overpaid NBA power forward has been busted for crack , and the way you feel when a rich investment banker is handcuffed and hauled off to jail for insider trading ?
Personally , I 'll miss watching the forward 's turnaround slammajamma , and I 'm disappointed that he 's so stupid .
On the other hand , the shackling of the shark brings a smile to my face .
I suspect most of America agrees with me on this .
And that 's why most CEOs just can n't be heroes even if they want to be .
If they could , people would write country songs with titles like : `` Mamas do n't let your babies grow up to be CEOs . ''
Mr. Huey is The Wall Street Journal 's Atlanta bureau chief .
Valero Energy Corp. said a holder group has sold about 741,025 of its Valero common shares and plans to sell an additional 378,900 shares during the next two months .
The shareholders , represented by Washington , D.C.-based TAG Group USA Inc. , previously held a total of 2,068,950 Valero common shares , or about 8 % of the total outstanding .
After the current and planned sales , totaling about 1.1 million shares , TAG would have 949,025 shares .
A spokesman for Valero , a refinery and pipeline concern , said that once the sales of the shares are completed , TAG intends to continue with an orderly sale of its Valero holdings , depending on market conditions .
TAG represents a Luxembourg-based investment group , Valero said .
TAG acquired its stake in Valero as part of a crude-oil supply transaction .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Valero shares closed at $ 11.50 , up 50 cents .
A few months ago when I noted that some parts of America 's corporate establishment showed a tendency toward `` corpocracy , '' my remarks seemed to touch a nerve .
Many people , including many executives , expressed strong agreement .
But , in some quarters , an immediate dfensive reaction was evident .
What struck me most about this defensiveness was the apparent sense of outrage that the subject had even been raised .
Denial of the legitimacy of raising the subject seemed in itself a regrettable symptom .
By the same token , my remarks needed to be put in a broader perspective .
I certainly did not intend to criticize all of business .
And , it would be unfair to suggest that our competitiveness problem should be blamed solely on weakness in part of the corporate culture .
To some degree , the corporate culture is a reflection of the larger culture in which it resides .
And problems in one suggest the likelihood of problems in the other .
It 's not simply that parts of corporate America seem to have turned a `` corpocratic '' gray .
Sometimes America itself seems to be graying .
The idea of a graying America is hard to accept .
America is meant to connote youthful vigor , romantic dreams , boundless opportunity , pioneering spirit .
A graying America seems a contradiction in terms -- like Bruce Springsteen in a gray flannel suit .
Of course not all is turning to gray .
Even in corporate culture , there are still colorful adventurers : Jobs , Pickens , and Perot , for example .
These are hardly dull conformists . -LRB- When I first met Steve Jobs , he had not yet become a media phenom .
I mistakenly greeted one of his older , three-piece-suited associates as if he were the chairman of Apple Computer .
It had n't occurred to me that the then-chairman would be the one in an open shirt , wearing what looked like a refined version of Mr. T 's neck chains . -RRB-
But the very media attention that Jobs `` et al '' have received suggests that these flamboyant risk-takers are exceptions who prove a rule : Most corporate leadership is a rather conventional gray .
That is not necessarily a bad thing .
An economy cannot afford to have everyone take high risks any more than a nation can have everyone explore new frontiers , or a football team can have everyone go out long .
But the question still presses itself upon us : Are we becoming a bit too gray -- losing our youthful energy and missionary vision as we age ?
Is our pioneering spirit flagging ?
Clearly , the current interest in competitiveness suggests that there is some problem .
Our huge current-account deficit has been a troubling symptom in the '80s .
An even more troubling indicator is our comparative performance in productivity growth .
It has been lagging since the '50s .
In the period 1950-1965 , total U.S. business productivity grew at 3 % a year .
From 1965 to 1973 , it grew at about 2 % .
And since 1973 , it has grown at roughly 1 % .
But worse : Our manufacturing productivity has consistently grown more slowly than that of our major trading partners .
From 1950 to 1985 , ours grew at an average of 2.5 % a year .
Japan 's grew at 8.4 % .
Germany 's and Italy 's grew at 5.5 % , France 's at 5.3 % and Canada 's at 3.5 % .
Even much-maligned Britain surpassed us , growing at an average of 3.1 % .
There has been an abundance of excuses and explanations .
Excessive fiscal deficits , the run-up of the dollar , asymmetry in our openness to imports , the LDC debt crisis -- all these contributed to our trade deficit .
The destruction of Europe 's and Japan 's capital stock in World War II -- and their associated opportunity to rebuild from scratch -- played a part in our productivity lag .
So , too , did the rise of our service sector -LRB- with lower measured productivity growth than manufacturing -RRB- , as did the widespread integration in the labor force of previously excluded and undertrained minorities and women .
But warmed-over excuses for cold statistics should not lead us to underrate what appears to be a long-term secular trend : In the post-war era , we have been losing our edge .
Yes , America has made remarkable advances .
We have pioneered in areas ranging from biotechnology to the industrialization of space .
In more conventional fields , corporate America has managed substantial restructuring .
And the twin deficits , fiscal and trade , seem to be turning in the right direction .
Still , we should not delude ourselves into thinking that the troublesome long-term trend will easily be put behind us .
Beyond Japan is Korea , along with other rising Asian economic powers .
Beyond the trade deficit is competition in services -- as well as an increase in `` invisible '' returns to foreign owners of U.S. debt and equity .
Beyond a decline in relative economic power is a likely cost in foreign policy .
And if the productivity lag is not reversed , America may face an identity problem : As Presidents Kennedy and Reagan have argued , America is not meant to be second best .
The federal government has been conspicuously clumsy and misguided at times .
But to reverse the long-term trend we must not only examine government policy , as Washington is now doing .
We must also examine our curiously self-satisfied culture .
Clearly , the symptoms of `` corpocracy '' are not confined to business .
Some of our most vital support systems seem to be weakening with age .
Our basic educational system , for example , has become a giant `` mediocracy '' , one of the world 's foremost manufacturers of the culturally and competitively mediocre .
We seem to have slipped into moral and intellectual complacency -- not just in some plush boardrooms , but generally .
The work ethic is now rivaled by the leisure ethic , the consumption ethic and the `` I-can-have-it-all '' ethic .
The Yuppie phenomenon is only the most visible outward sign of a pervasive and dull materialism -- unconnected with higher purpose , divorced from the idealistic tradition that sought to build a shining city upon a hill .
It sometimes seems as if the rising stars of our commercial culture think Americans fought and died to make the world safe for wine coolers , the BMW , a year-end bonus and designer underwear .
Interdependence has risen .
But we still tend to think of ourselves as protected by oceans , an isle unto ourselves .
Comforted by our own rising standard of living , we have often forgotten to consider how our position is changing relative to other nations .
But more basically : We have often lost sight of our higher standards , those that would expand the limits of human potential , and give meaning to our endeavors .
It is as if we were fading back into the gray self-satisfaction of the '50s .
But the world has changed .
To meet its challenges , we need to reawaken the spirit of America 's youth .
Self-examination is a useful start .
The trade deficit should do for us now what Sputnik did : infuse not just corporate culture , but the larger society , with renewed vigor and vision -- calling us again to our more vibrant colors .
Edith Reich , formerly a foreign-trade representative for Dayco Corp. , pleaded guilty to defrauding the company of more than $ 12 million in false commissions .
Mrs. Reich , 63 years old , admitted in federal court that she and others defrauded Dayco of the money while she represented the company between 1979 and 1981 .
The chemicals , plastics and rubber company , based in Dayton , Ohio , recently sold most of its rubber operations and changed its name to Day International .
Mrs. Reich was arrested last June .
Prosecutors said she is cooperating in a continuing investigation .
As previously reported , Mrs. Reich represented Dayco in negotiating and securing orders for the purchase of Dayco goods through Soviet foreign-trade organizations .
In her guilty plea , she admitted receiving commissions for more than $ 100 million in nonexistent orders for Dayco goods .
Mrs. Reich worked for Dayco as president and chief operating officer of Foreign Transactions Corp. and Trachem Co. .
She faces a maximum five-year prison term and $ 1,000 fine at sentencing April 29 .
Dayco previously won a $ 19 million judgment in a civil suit against Mrs. Reich in 1984 .
The judgment included certain damages in addition to the amount of the commissions .
SJNB Financial Corp. said 47-year-old Douglas McLendon resigned as chief executive officer , president and a director .
The bank holding company would n't say why Mr. McLendon , who also resigned similar posts with SJNB 's San Jose National Bank unit , left the company .
Mr. McLendon could n't be reached for comment .
Vice Chairman William Pfeifle , 68 , succeeds Mr. McLendon on an interim basis as chief executive and president , SJNB said .
Board membership is reduced to 12 .
While declining to discuss the reasons behind Mr. McLendon 's departure , SJNB 's chairman , Arthur Lund , emphasized that the move `` does n't indicate any problem '' at the holding company or its units .
The company and its loan portfolio are `` in excellent shape , '' he said .
In 1986 , SJNB had net income of $ 407,000 , or 34 cents a share , off 35 % from a year earlier .
Year-end assets were $ 126.2 million .
MCorp , Texas 's largest bank holding company , said it plans to convert 35 of its 62 banking units into branches , and it said it realigned its top management .
MCorp said it will begin conversion to the branch structure in the El Paso area , in the second quarter .
Similar conversions in the Dallas , Fort Worth , Houston , Austin and San Antonio areas will follow .
Texas recently changed its banking laws to allow a limited form of branch banking .
Rigid state laws had required each banking facility to be a separately chartered bank and had prohibited branches .
MCorp said that it expects to save money through consolidation of operations .
It also said its customers will benefit from increased convenience and services .
MCorp 's plans follow similar announcements by other Texas banking firms .
MCorp , which has $ 21.9 billion in assets , also said it has formed a 10-member management committee to design company policy .
The group consists of Gene H. Bishop , chairman and chief executive officer ; John T. Cater , president and chief operating officer ; and eight senior executives each of whom was given the new title of group chairman .
MCorp 's 19 managing directors report to group chairmen , MCorp said .
American Home Shield Corp. said it arranged for the private placement of 1.2 million common shares previously owned by Ticor Title Insurance Co. .
The home warranty company issued the shares , which represent a 17 % stake in the company , to Ticor Title as part of the purchase price when it acquired the Los Angeles-based concern 's Ticor Home Warranty Co. unit in 1985 .
Ticor Title had been American Home Shield 's largest holder .
An official said Robinson Humphrey Co. of Atlanta placed the stock with 15 investors , none of whom now holds more than 200,000 shares .
The price was n't disclosed .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , American Shield closed at $ 8.25 , up 25 cents .
Separately , American Home reported fourth-quarter net income rose 6 % to $ 1 million , or 15 cents a share , from $ 969,000 , or 15 cents a share , a year earlier .
Revenue for the quarter rose 40 % to $ 10.9 million from $ 7.8 million a year ago .
For the year , net , helped by a $ 1 million tax benefit , grew to $ 2.4 million , or 33 cents a share .
Year-earlier net , after a charge of $ 551,000 from write-offs of goodwill and settlement of litigation , was $ 90,000 .
Preferred dividend requirements exceeded net income .
Revenue rose 88 % to $ 38.2 million from $ 20.3 million a year ago .
Phillips Petroleum Co. said its global crude oil reserves fell 20 % last year , while its overall energy reserves slid 6 % .
Analysts say the declines are further indication that Phillips is liquidating at a faster rate than other major oil companies .
Like most oil companies , Phillips invested relatively little in exploration last year because of low oil and gas prices .
The energy concern also is highly leveraged , with long-term debt of $ 5.76 billion at year 's end , and has been selling oil and gas properties to reduce its debt load .
`` It suggests to me that they are fighting an uphill battle and they are losing , '' says Sanford Margoshes , an analyst with Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. .
The disclosure of reserve data in the company 's annual report comes on the heels of active trading in Phillips 's stock that has pushed the stock price as high as $ 15.675 a share -- the highest level since early 1985 .
Phillips has been the most actively traded stock on the New York Stock Exchange twice this week , with more than four million shares changing hands on both Tuesday and Wednesday .
In composite trading , Phillips shares dropped 25 cents to close at $ 15.125 each on volume of 1.7 million shares .
Analysts attributed the stock activity to firmer oil prices and more confidence in the company 's future , but they cautioned that the company 's debt still makes it a relatively risky investment .
`` I prefer other companies in the energy group , '' says Edith Barschi , a Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. analyst .
The company said its U.S. oil reserves fell 24 % during 1986 .
Its U.S. natural gas reserves declined 10 % .
World-wide , however , Phillips 's gas reserves grew 5 % , primarily because of revisions in reserves at the company 's Ekofisk field in Norway .
As previously reported , the Norway reserves were reduced in 1985 because Phillips had to reinject natural gas into the field to keep it from subsiding .
The amount of gas reinjected was reduced in 1986 , allowing the company to again count the reserves .
The company 's global natural gas liquids reserves grew 13 % , while its U.S. natural gas liquids reserves increased 28 % .
Overall , Phillips reserves declined less than the 11 % the company predicted last fall because of the adjustment to the Ekofisk field and because U.S. natural gas and natural gas liquids reserves were higher than initial evaluations indicated .
American Motors Corp. 's board is to meet again today amid investor speculation -- perhaps optimistic -- that Chrysler Corp. may be pressured to sweeten its $ 4-a-share bid for the company .
Chrysler last week agreed to acquire from Regie Nationale des Usines Renault its 46.1 % stake in ailing AMC , and proposed to buy the rest of AMC in a stock swap valued at $ 4 a share .
The total transaction , which includes Chrysler stock , bonds and cash , is valued at as much as $ 1.11 billion .
Yet AMC 's stock , which had been trading around $ 3.50 a share , immediately jumped above $ 4 on news of the proposal and has stubbornly stayed there on heavy volume .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , AMC shares closed at $ 4.375 , up 12.5 cents , and Chrysler shares closed at $ 53.50 , down 12.5 cents , both in light trading .
`` What the market seems to be saying is that American Motors may hold out for a higher price from Chrysler '' for public shareholders , said David Healy , an analyst with Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. .
`` The board is n't overwhelmed by the Chrysler offer . ''
Nor are some Wall Street traders , some of whom believe Renault is getting a better deal than other AMC shareholders .
`` You might see another dollar '' added to Chrysler 's per-share offer , one arbitrager contended , saying his firm took a position in AMC after it topped $ 4 a share .
Another arbitrager said her firm bought 200,000 shares of AMC for $ 4.25 each after calculating that Chrysler 's agreement with Renault , which contains variables based on AMC 's future performance , ultimately will give Renault as much as $ 8 to $ 9 a share .
Her firm is gambling that AMC thus will be able to wring more from Chrysler for other shareholders .
Not everyone believes in that gamble .
`` I 'm telling my clients they should sell American Motors shares , '' said Ronald Glantz , an analyst at Montgomery Securities .
`` I do n't think there 's going to be a sweetener . ''
He said that upon completion of the agreement with Renault , AMC warrants and junior convertible preferred shares that would be part of the transaction would help give Chrysler control of the board .
Even though Chrysler at that point would n't have two-thirds of the voting stock necessary to approve the acquisition , he said Chrysler nonetheless might not feel pressured to buy out minority holders , though it has said it wants all of AMC. AMC has about 116.7 million shares outstanding .
Wall Street analysts do n't see any other bidders stepping forward , though last year Ford Motor Co. evaluated and rejected making an offer .
Still , AMC has retained Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. to review Chrysler 's bid .
And if Shearson concludes that $ 4 a share is inadequate , AMC may gain some additional bargaining leverage .
But Charles Brady , an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. , said , `` I think $ 4 -LRB- a share -RRB- is going to be accepted as a fair offer . ''
An AMC spokesman said he expects Shearson to present at least a preliminary opinion at today 's AMC board meeting .
So far , AMC has been coy with Chrysler , issuing terse news releases saying merely that the Southfield , Mich.-based auto maker is evaluating Chrysler 's proposal .
AMC executives have said they are frustrated about the timing of the bid , contending AMC was just about to turn the corner after a string of troubled years .
The company 's Jeep sales are strong and AMC is just now introducing lines of larger Renault cars that could finally give it a position in a broader segment of the auto market -- but only if currently skeptical buyers start returning to AMC 's showrooms .
Investors `` think Chrysler is buying American Motors at the pivotal time , '' another arbitrage specialist said .
Under Chrysler 's stock swap offer , an AMC holder could get more than $ 4 a share if Chrysler 's stock exceeds $ 58.22 before the shares are exchanged .
Some investors may be gambling on that appreciation and have chosen to buy AMC stock , instead of more expensive Chrysler shares , because `` this is a way of playing Chrysler for $ 4 , '' one source familiar with the acquisition bid said .
Nonetheless , Chrysler shares have continued to trade in the low 50s since the proposal was announced .
Chrysler would n't say whether it is buying AMC stock .
In an attempt to buttress its flagging credibility in the computer industry , American Telephone & Telegraph Co. plans a big news conference next Tuesday to showcase new products and its latest top computer executive , Vittorio Cassoni .
Separately , James E. Edwards , an AT&T senior vice president who preceded Mr. Cassoni as head of the computer division , said he is leaving the company , effective Monday .
According to managers in the computer , or Data Systems , division , AT&T will announce new products that include an addition to its 3B minicomputer line , software products to connect its machines to those of International Business Machines Corp. , a laser printer , the latest version of the Unix V operating system software and some local area network products .
None of the products are technologically significant but mainly catch up with competitors , AT&T managers and consultants said .
The announcements , to be made at AT&T headquarters in three separate meetings with consultants , reporters and industry analysts , are meant to show that Mr. Cassoni and AT&T are still serious about selling computers .
The intent , AT&T sources say , is to `` reassure customers unsettled by events of the past six months '' and `` convince customers who are still ' on the fence ' that AT&T is the right choice . ''
AT&T 's credibility in computers has plummeted as it has reshuffled management , posted pre-tax 1986 operating losses of $ 1.2 billion in the division , and appeared to be de-emphasizing computers in favor of long-distance phone service .
Product sales have been dismal recently ; according to AT&T sources , the company in January sold a mere 2,000 PC 6300 and 6300 Plus personal computers , its most successful machine , against a business plan of 120,000 for the year .
Last year , sources say , the company took a $ 100 million write-off , in two steps , on its Unix PC , and stopped ordering the machine , resulting in layoffs and salary cuts at its maker , Convergent Technologies Inc. , San Jose , Calif. .
Several Data Systems executives have quit recently .
John Walsh , a vice president in charge of the 3B minicomputer line , surprised colleagues in January when he left to join a small West Coast videoconferencing concern .
And just yesterday Mr. Edwards said he is leaving to become president and chief executive officer of TelWatch Inc. , a Boulder , Col. , developer of systems to manage networks .
`` I 've escaped , '' said Mr. Edwards .
Telwatch `` had been working on me for the last 30 to 35 days to see if they could tempt me to leave Big Mama .
I 've always had the ambition to run my own company . ''
Though Mr. Cassoni has a tough job ahead of him , he is trying hard to reestablish AT&T 's credibility .
He attended an important personal computer industry conference in Phoenix , Ariz. , last month -- the first year that AT&T has gone to that particular conference .
`` Vittorio seemed a lot more interested in what the industry is doing '' than past AT&T computer executives , said John Sculley , chairman of Apple Computer Inc. .
Mr. Edwards , who cited a number of reasons for AT&T 's trouble in computers , also said he thought Mr. Cassoni 's job will be made easier by his coming from Ing .
C. Olivetti & Co. of Italy , which has agreed to make and develop all AT&T personal computers and workstations .
He said he supported the decision made last October to replace him with Mr. Cassoni .
In Mr. Cassoni , `` you are n't bringing in just another outsider .
You are listening to a strategic partner , '' Mr. Edwards said .
Since Mr. Cassoni arrived , `` my observation is that the strategic relationship with Olivetti is working better , '' he said .
AT&T previously had disputes with Olivetti over transfer pricing and marketing strategy .
Industry consultants said Mr. Cassoni 's approach thus far is to rank products in terms of profitability and cut those that are n't money makers .
`` He is either going to make it profitable or they are going to get out of the business , and I figure he has two years to do it , '' said David Taylor , a program director at Gartner Group who left AT&T 's computer division last April .
But product managers also grumble that , because of directives from Mr. Cassoni 's bosses , whose experience is in AT&T 's regulated long-distance business , expenses are being restricted so much that they can n't adequately serve customers .
According to some , each product manager is allowed only $ 3,000 a year for travel and entertainment .
On that budget , product managers say , they can n't determine what customers need , let alone sell them anything .
An AT&T spokesman would n't comment on specifics , but said the company would spend what was necessary to sell products .
`` If they really restrict them to that , there is going to be a lot of time spent over the phone , '' said Mr. Taylor .
`` They will n't be able to hold people to that and get products out . ''
In addition , Mr. Cassoni is plagued by the same problem that hurt Mr. Edwards : He does n't have his own sales force to sell computers , but has to rely on a sales force that also sells long distance service , modems , multiplexers , telephones and office switchboards .
One source said Mr. Cassoni 's boss , Sam R. Willcoxon , president of the Business Markets Group , refused to give him his own sales force .
Unless the company changes its mind , the source said , `` they are going to have a very , very hard time being successful in anything except long distance . ''
The nation 's airlines ended four days of meetings here , agreeing to make about 275 changes in their summer flight schedules to head off delays during peak times , according to Federal Aviation Administration officials .
In addition , said Edward Faberman , deputy chief counsel for the agency , the carriers had made about 70 changes immediately before the sessions began and have agreed to try to make more revisions for Chicago 's O' Hare International Airport and Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport in coming weeks .
The main carriers at those airports will meet again with the FAA April 10 .
The meetings , which the FAA supervised , convened Monday under a Transportation Department grant of antitrust immunity .
The department contended that the carriers had scheduled too many flights at peak times , and that adjustments were needed to prevent delays this summer .
Besides Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth , other airports included in the talks were Atlanta 's Hartsfield International Airport , Newark , N.J. , International Airport and Philadelphia International Airport .
Mr. Faberman said he was generally pleased with the results of the meetings -- except in the case of the Atlanta airport , where the carriers fell about 90 changes short of the goal of 290 revisions .
`` We 're all a little disappointed about that , '' he said .
The carriers made about four dozen changes at Chicago , one at Dallas-Fort Worth and 13 each at Newark and Philadelphia .
Mr. Faberman said that he was satisfied with the new schedules for Newark and Philadelphia , and that he hoped additional changes at Chicago and Dallas-Fort Worth could be made at the April meeting .
The changes agreed to this week will involve the airlines ' April-October schedules .
As technology stocks go , recent history suggests , so goes the over-the-counter market .
And OTC technology stock prices have been slipping this month .
They are slipping from far loftier price levels than most investors realize they 've attained and , analysts say , that may be one reason why several major categories of OTC technology stocks are particularly vulnerable right now .
Technology issues comprise the second biggest group of stocks in the OTC market -- some 28 % of the 4,600 stocks in the OTC 's Nasdaq automated quotation system .
While bank and financial stocks outnumber the technology issues , embracing one-third of the Nasdaq issues , their prices tend to proceed at a more leisurely pace .
When prices of the volatile biotechnology , computer and electronic stocks all begin moving rapidly in the same direction , up or down , they can move the OTC composite 5 % or more in a matter of days .
The current weakness in technology is confined to computer-related stocks , which have dropped about 5 % in the past few weeks after roaring ahead more than 65 % in the first two months of the year .
Biotechnology and electronics stocks , the other two major technology subgroups , are still managing to creep ahead .
Followers of the computer-related stocks are watching International Business Machines Corp. , which is about to disclose details of its clone-proof microcomputers .
IBM 's announcement , expected in the first week of April , will make clearer which companies will be affected and how .
`` Investors are trying to guess what effect the new IBM clone-proof microcomputers will have on the various companies , '' explains Charles Wolf , an analyst at First Boston Corp. .
Among the worst hit are some of the disk-drive makers who have benefited from sales related to IBM 's current models .
They have tumbled in price , dragging down with them even the stock prices of unrelated companies such as Maxtor Corp. , a disk-drive maker whose sales have nothing to do with these IBM models .
`` Many investors just buy or sell groups , '' says Mr. Wolf .
Despite a slight recovery in the computer issues this week , the problem could get worse .
`` The market has n't fully factored in IBM. Computer stocks could move down further when the announcement occurs , '' he adds .
Analysts say that the three big groupings of technology stocks do n't have an effect on one another , but when all three move up together , as they have this year , they can boost the broad performance measures of the whole OTC market .
Thus , this year 's more than 50 % jump in OTC technology stock prices has been the principal driving force behind a concurrent 25 % rise in the Nasdaq composite index .
The huge technology stock price rise , verified by a broad Wall Street Journal sampling , has been far greater than many investors realize .
That 's because the indexes commonly used to gauge technology stock trends , such as the Pacific Stock Exchange technology index , are imperfect measures of such performance in the OTC market .
The PSE technology measure is up only 33 % this year .
The PSE technology index also includes exchange-listed technology stocks , which have moved in a different pattern than the OTC issues this year .
IBM alone accounts for 5 % of this PSE index .
And while IBM has driven the OTC computer group prices lower this month , its own price has risen 5 % in recent weeks .
The OTC subgroup that has proved most volatile over the past few years is biotechnology , where stock prices still are moving up a bit .
But , some analysts say , many of these stocks may now be fully priced and vulnerable .
`` The stocks are already pretty nicely priced relative to future earnings , '' says Robert Kupor , biotechnology stock analyst with Cable , Howse & Ragen in Seattle .
In fact , he says , multiples based on estimates of future earnings are about where they were in the second quarter of last year , when the biotechnology market peaked .
He also says the market in these stocks is psychologically driven , with investors reacting to guesses about what the companies may do in 1990 or 1992 , rather than to current performance .
Given that , and their lofty price levels , Mr. Kupor says he would `` not be stunned to see the biotechnology market top out '' as a result of `` any one or two negative events '' such as a delay in federal approval of a drug or a decision in patent law .
Stocks now moving the biotechnology group are the biomedical issues , including such stocks as Centocor Inc. , up 12 % since the beginning of March .
Like most other companies gaining ground in this group , there is an AIDS play .
Centocor is working on an vaccine against acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
Sometimes the connection to AIDS is tenuous .
Amgen Corp. , also up sharply in the past few weeks , is moving on speculation that a product it is developing to treat anemia may find a large market once the Food and Drug Administration approves azidothymidine , or AZT , a proposed AIDS treatment made by Burroughs-Wellcome Co. That 's because anemia is one of the reported side effects of AZT .
`` The company also has a protein that could be given instead of transfusions , making it a double AIDS play , '' says Mr. Kupor .
`` But who knows ?
Everyone is guessing . ''
In the electronics group , many semiconductor , microwave relay and other communications issues have been lackluster performers this month .
But other shares have been advancing so strongly that they are lifting the performance of the group as a whole .
These hot stocks include optical scanning and industrial robot development stocks , which were hardest hit in last fall 's technology stock sell-off and have been among the last to recover this year .
Sometimes a takeover bid is n't really a bid .
A spate of conditional acquisition proposals in the past year has confounded Wall Street arbitragers , who have lost money betting on `` bids '' proposed -- but never formally made -- for such companies as USX Corp. , Lucky Stores Inc. and Borg-Warner Corp. .
Here is an example of what happens :
Last Nov. 25 , Borg-Warner directors received a letter from Minneapolis investor Irwin Jacobs , who together with Minstar Inc. controlled 7.7 % of the plastics , car parts and chemicals concern and proposed to buy the rest for $ 43 to $ 48 a share .
Although the figures he used were quite specific , Mr. Jacobs said he wanted to see the books before negotiating a friendly acquisition .
Even though his letter did n't constitute a formal offer , it was referred to in news stories as a `` bid '' or an `` offer , '' and the stock rose $ 1.375 , to $ 39 , in response .
But the gulf between the stock price and the figures cited by Mr. Jacobs reflected skepticism that such a bid would really arrive .
The letter was viewed as a move to hasten a restructuring , or to spark a bid by another Borg holder , GAF Corp. .
Since then the company largely has ignored Mr. Jacobs , who threatened a hostile tender offer Feb. 19 , and the stock has lagged behind the market .
Such tactics are `` in vogue , '' because they are `` a cost efficient way of stirring up the stew , '' said Arthur Fleischer , a merger lawyer at Fried Frank Harris Shriver & Jacobson .
`` What is a postage stamp , 22 cents ? '' he said .
`` You can cause a lot of consequences to a company by simply sending a letter .
Basically , you may -- but not necessarily -- put the company in play , '' he said .
Lawrence Schloss , a mergers executive at Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette , said of those who make the proposals : `` Some are your basic greenmail artists .
Some are bona fide buyers who see value but really do n't have the appropriate information to make an offer .
And some are a combination of the two . ''
In an interview , Mr. Jacobs said he did n't write the letter merely to stir the stew or put Borg-Warner in play , and said the company has agreed to talk to him .
`` Do n't assume nothing is happening .
Do n't assume we 're just sitting here waiting for the phone to ring , '' he added .
But he acknowledged that disclosure of a proposal may put pressure on a company to deal with a suitor .
`` I think people who are running certain companies pay more attention to what Wall Street says sometimes .
And if no one knows anything , then there 's no pressure -LRB- for the company -RRB- to say anything . ''
In a typical pattern , an investor will buy a 5 % stake , try to get arbitragers to buy shares , and then make a bid `` proposal '' to focus attention on the potential values .
Mr. Schloss said that target companies must usually hire investment bankers to evaluate the proposal .
`` They have a fiduciary obligation to see if it 's real and then respond . ''
Once in play , the target company may negotiate with the `` bidder , '' seek a rescuing suitor , or execute a restructuring to boost the stock price .
Plenty of takeover attempts turn into mergers or leveraged buyouts through just such a process .
`` Maybe it 's a way of starting talks with management .
It works if you can find weak management that perceives itself as weak , '' said Juliusz Sas , a special situations analyst at the brokerage house Balis Zorn Gerard Inc. who has followed the Borg-Warner siege .
`` It 's like pointing at them with an unloaded gun . ''
But for the corporate raider forced to pull the trigger in such a circumstance , the results can be an embarrassing `` click . ''
That 's what happened at the denouement of Asher Edelman 's pursuit of Lucky Stores , a California grocery chain .
Mr. Edelman 's pursuit of Lucky had all the twists and turns of a Gothic novel .
After accumulating a reported 3 % stake , he proposed a $ 35-a-share friendly purchase in a letter disclosed Sept. 24 .
He demanded that any restructuring be `` prompt and efficient .
Lip service will not satisfy me . ''
After company officials refused to meet Mr. Edelman , Lucky stock peaked at $ 37.875 in early October on reports that the investor was ready to launch a hostile tender offer .
But he did n't follow through on that threat after Lucky formally rejected the proposal Oct. 6 and began a defensive restructuring and stock buyback .
The investor then raised his proposed bid to $ 37 a share .
Lucky rejected it again .
Mr. Edelman dropped his proposal , then renewed it again Nov. 19 after buying more shares .
But after holders approved the restructuring in late December , the stock fell to $ 26 .
-LRB- Mr. Edelman was more determined in his pursuit of Ponderosa Inc.
He disclosed a 19 % stake in late November , and without further preliminaries , launched a tender offer Dec. 2 that , after some sweetening , snared the company . -RRB-
Two weeks ago , Mr. Edelman reached a three-year standstill agreement limiting his Lucky stake to 5 % and barring him from attempting to gain control .
Lucky paid him just $ 2.8 million to cover expenses .
Although Lucky shares have rebounded to $ 31.875 , they have lagged behind the market since the takeover attempt , and some arbitragers are bitter .
`` As far as I 'm concerned , he sold his credibility for $ 2.8 million , '' said one .
Mr. Edelman was out of the country this week and could n't be reached for comment .
His lawyer , Burton Lehman of Schulte Roth & Zabel , said that while Mr. Edelman 's proposals `` were n't bids in the nature of a tender offer , they were serious bids seeking to work out a basis to purchase the company .
But the company rejected each of them and went ahead and did its restructuring . ''
Perhaps the most prominent `` non-bid '' bid was Carl Icahn 's run on USX. Mr. Icahn and several other corporate raiders had taken positions in the depressed stock .
On Oct. 6 , he proposed a `` friendly '' $ 31-a-share acquisition , subject to a look at the books , but threatened a hostile tender if the company did n't accept or undertake a `` radical '' restructuring .
One prominent merger lawyer said arbitragers erroneously `` treated Icahn 's conditional approach to U.S. Steel as an unconditional bid .
It was n't a bid .
He said he would make a bid ' if-if-if . '
But the Street treated them as a company that was in play . ''
Mr. Icahn and USX management soon became embroiled in a lengthy effort to agree on conditions under which the investor could look at the books .
Then the insider-trading scandals that broke in mid-November tainted his investment banker , Drexel Burnham Lambert , putting in doubt some raiders ' ability to get financing and leaving Mr. Icahn stuck in USX .
The stock fell to 20 before rebounding on higher oil prices .
In January , he abandoned the effort , but still owns the stock .
This month , Mr. Icahn and his Trans World Airlines made a proposal for a bid that got set aside before it was ever made .
TWA bought 15 % of USAir Group stock and suggested it might bid $ 52 a share for the whole company after USAir made a bid to acquire Piedmont Aviation .
The Icahn move was widely interpreted as an effort to foil a combination that stood to rob him of two choice candidates to merge with -- or , preferably , buy -- TWA .
But USAir rejected the bid as `` highly conditional , '' among other things .
After a federal judge blocked further purchases and Piedmont agreed to merge with USAir , Mr. Icahn said he would n't seek control for the moment .
Many bona fide tender offers are contingent on the target company dropping anti-takeover provisions , including a bid this week by AFG Industries and Wagner & Brown for GenCorp .
Takeover experts said it is also legitimate for would-be acquirers to want to see a company 's books .
But last summer , Wagner & Brown made a proposal for a bid that never went through .
Wagner & Brown suggested paying $ 50 a share for Panhandle Eastern Corp. last June 30 , and the stock initially surged near that price .
But Panhandle soon rejected the bid and took a $ 460 million charge to settle a dispute with Algeria .
Terms included what amounted to an anti-takeover provision giving the Algerians the right to sell Panhandle stock back to the company at an above-market price .
The stock sank to $ 40 following those moves , as investors began to fear Wagner & Brown would n't really make a bid .
Possibly fearing another takeover move , Panhandle then spun off its most attractive asset , Anadarko Petroleum Corp. , and the two stocks combined eventually rose well above the $ 50 figure .
A proposed bid in the oil patch that never actually materialized came from Canada 's Belzberg family for Ashland Oil Inc. a year ago .
The Belzbergs said they were prepared to pay $ 60 a share , but later accepted $ 51 a share from the company for their 9.2 % stake .
Skeptics are already wondering about a proposal Feb. 23 from Columbia Ventures , a Miami-based partnership that said it might pay $ 19 a share for Harnischfeger Industries Inc. .
The stock , which initially ran up to $ 18.25 on the news , has since retreated to $ 17.625 .
Of course , how a company treats a proposal varies according to the proposer 's identity .
Mr. Schloss of Donaldson , Lufkin & Jenrette said if it 's , say , Texaco Inc. , directors have to consider it seriously .
But , as Borg-Warner observed last month : `` We do not consider letters from Mr. Jacobs as formal offers or legally binding . ''
In deciding how to value a target company 's stock , arbitragers go through a similar thought process .
Even though they have all taken greenmail in the past , Messrs .
Icahn and Jacobs and Canada 's Belzbergs have gained credibility by actually buying companies on occasion .
However , one takeover speculator focuses on the target company instead of on the proposer .
`` It does n't matter whether the bidder is serious , '' says this arbitrager .
`` You look to see whether the target is going to care .
Just look at the board of directors .
People who are from the Boy Scouts of America '' are n't likely to put up as much resistance as `` someone whose name is on the company . ''
Vaughn L. Beals Jr. got up at a Washington news conference earlier this week and offered to give up what many U.S. chief executives would dearly love to have -- a stiff tariff against foreign competitors .
The chairman and chief executive officer of Harley-Davidson Inc. , the Milwaukee-based motorcycle maker , said his company does n't need the final year of a five-year tariff aimed at big Japanese motorcycles , and he asked the International Trade Commission to cancel it .
The move brought immediate praise from Congress and gave a boost to controversial efforts to aid other battered domestic industries with trade legislation .
Mr. Beals 's offer to drop the tariff early `` is the kind of attitude in American business that we need , '' says an aide to Sen. John Heinz of Pennsylvania , a Republican who backed Harley 's efforts to get the tariff in 1983 .
Harley 's move shows that a tariff can be a short-term tonic to a company , Sen. Heinz feels , and need n't become a permanent lifeline , as opponents to such measures have warned .
But the 59-year-old Mr. Beals did n't bring his company back from the brink of collapse by giving away competitive advantages , nor is he doing so now .
His plea to terminate the tariff is more intended to portray Harley as a Chrysler Corp. on two wheels .
Mr. Beals concedes that the tariff , which falls to 10 % from 15 % April 1 , is at this point worth little or nothing to Harley , the only remaining U.S. motorcycle maker .
And some say it was never essential to Harley 's survival .
`` I think they could have pulled it off without the tariff , '' says Kevin Bahr , a securities analyst who follows Harley at Robert W. Baird & Co. in Milwaukee .
Rather , Mr. Bahr says , it was Harley 's streamlining of its manufacturing process and improvement of quality that saved the company .
Some of the measures , such as so-called just-in-time inventory control , are patterned after Japanese industrial practices .
Though Mr. Beals was saying in Washington that the tariff had given Harley a `` respite from predatory import practices , '' the company noted in its stock offering last summer that `` the benefits . . . from the special tariff have been limited . ''
A spokeswoman at the trade agency said yesterday that Harley has n't yet filed its request to cancel the tariff and that , when it does , the agency will need at least three months to research the request and then make a recommendation to President Reagan .
Mr. Beals says that making such a request has been under consideration for several months , but that he wanted to wait until just before the tariff levels were lowered to 10 % , when the tariff will n't be `` worth a whole bunch . ''
Mr. Beals , himself an avid rider of Harley 's big Electra Glide , or `` hog '' cycles , led a management buyout of Harley from its then-parent , AMF Inc. , in 1981 .
Almost immediately , high interest rates , a soft market for big cycles and a global war for market share among the much bigger Japanese motorcycle brands , Honda and Yamaha , threatened to send Harley to the junkyard .
The two Japanese makers were rapidly introducing new models and cutting prices .
Their U.S. inventories were bulging , threatening still more price cuts .
`` When the elephants dance , the ants get trampled , '' Mr. Beals says .
Harley also was still dogged by a 1970s reputation for uneven workmanship .
President Reagan granted the company tariffs on imported cycles with engines of 700 cubic centimeters or bigger , known as heavyweight cycles , beginning at 45 % of wholesale prices and falling year by year to 35 % , 20 % , 15 % , 10 % , and ending in April 1988 .
But , Mr. Beals notes , that was easily skirted .
Japanese makers quickly began building so-called `` tariff busters '' -- cycles with engines between 690 and 699 cubic centimeters .
And the glut of Japanese cycles already in the country was n't affected .
`` I 'd bet my net worth , '' Mr. Beals says , that some Japanese dealers are still selling `` new '' cycles that were imported before the tariff .
As a result of the improved manufacturing techniques he installed at Harley , Mr. Beals 's net worth is now considerable .
His 15.9 % stake in Harley 's almost six million shares , which went public last summer , had a value of about $ 12 million at yesterday 's closing price of $ 13.50 , up 25 cents , in American Stock Exchange composite trading .
Mr. Bahr says that 's a rich price -- almost 16 times 1986 operating earnings of 82 cents a share , or $ 4.3 million -- for a company in a mature industry , but adds that `` there is still kind of a mystique -- the only motorcycle company in America . ''
Sales last year were $ 295.3 million and market share rose to about 19 % from a 1983 low of 12.5 % , Mr. Beals says .
Mr. Beals monitors quality by doing his business travel , weather permitting , on a `` hog . ''
On a recent trip from San Francisco to Denver with his wife , Eleanor , he discovered a defect in the 1986-model seat : the rear , or passenger , seat tilted forward and Mrs. Beals 's helmet kept bumping his whenever he hit the brakes .
They stopped in Reno , Nev. , to call the factory , but test riders there had already found the flaw .
Standard & Poor 's Corp. , citing concerns about Bethlehem Steel Corp. 's survival , downgraded its ratings on $ 761 million of the steelmaker 's debt .
The rating concern downgraded Bethlehem 's senior debt to triple-C-plus from single-B-minus and its subordinated debt to triple-C-minus from triple-C .
S&P affirmed its single-C rating on Bethlehem preferred stock .
Dividends on the stock were suspended last year .
The actions reflect `` concern for Bethlehem 's viability over the intermediate term , rather than any immediate threat to solvency , '' S&P said .
In light of Bethlehem 's `` weak financial condition , the firm 's ability to weather any substantial price competition or a general economic downturn is questionable , '' S&P said .
Choosing bankruptcy , `` which relieved some of Bethlehem 's competitors of their financial burdens , '' is still an alternative for the company `` in the absence of any visible exit from the industry 's morass , '' the rating concern said .
The steelmaker 's liquidity , though , is strong relative to requirements this year , S&P said .
Bethlehem 's cash position improved to $ 463 million at year 's end from $ 395 million Sept. 30 and $ 99 million at the end of 1985 .
But Bethlehem has raised its cash reserves through non-sustainable actions such as selling assets , reducing working capital and drawing on bank credit facilities , rather than from operations , S&P said .
A Bethlehem spokesman termed the downgrading `` inappropriate '' in light of the company 's `` stability '' in the market , `` realization of the anticipated improvements in our steel operations '' and the current liquidity level .
Bethlehem expects to maintain ample liquidity through this year , the spokesman said .
A self-assured President Reagan vigorously defended his decision to sell arms to Iran , but said he `` would not go down that same road again . ''
In his first news conference in four months , Mr. Reagan last night appeared to do what his aides had said he had to do : He confidently fielded a barrage of questions about his secret Iran and Nicaragua policies and remained in command of the half-hour session .
The president again denied knowing that profits from the Iran arms sales were diverted to Nicaraguan rebels , or Contras .
Asked whether he knew White House aides were directing private aid to the Contras , he acknowledged only that he knew private individuals and groups were aiding the insurgents after Congress cut off U.S. aid to them in 1984 .
`` I do n't believe it was counter to any law , '' Mr. Reagan said .
The president 's performance was in sharp contrast to his previous news conference Nov. 19 , during which he appeared defensive and unfamiliar with the details of his own Iran policy .
During that earlier session , Mr. Reagan repeatedly denied that the U.S. had condoned Israeli arms sales to Iran in 1985 , but aides issued a correction minutes after the news conference ended .
Last night , Mr. Reagan said that he simply had misspoken and that he immediately had directed his aides to set the record straight .
Asked why he initially told reporters there was `` no foundation '' to a report that the U.S. had secretly sold arms to Iran , the president said he was trying to save the lives of the American hostages in Lebanon and Iranian middlemen whom he believed were helping to free them .
At the time , Mr. Reagan said , he believed two more hostages were about to be released .
`` I 'm not going to tell falsehoods to the American people , '' he said .
`` I 'll leave that to others . ''
On several occasions , however , the president appeared to contradict both Vice President George Bush and his own commission that investigated the Iran-Contra affair .
Asked whether Mr. Bush had advised against the Iran policy , Mr. Reagan said , `` No . ''
Mr. Bush , on a campaign trip to Michigan last month , told reporters that he had `` expressed reservations '' about the Iran arms policy to `` key players '' in the administration .
Mr. Bush 's press secretary Steve Hart last night said the president 's statement did n't contradict Mr. Bush 's February comments .
Mr. Hart pointed out that Mr. Bush has said on several occasions that he supported the Iran policy .
Mr. Hart would n't comment on how that support , or the president 's comments , squared with the `` reservations '' Mr. Bush has said he expressed .
Although the commission , headed by former Sen. John Tower -LRB- R. , Texas -RRB- , reported that the Iranians had paid far more than market value for U.S. TOW anti-tank missiles , Mr. Reagan said the U.S. `` asked for $ 12 million , which was the cost -- no profit -- on those weapons . ''
The Tower Commission also reported that former National Security Adviser Robert McFarlane testified that Mr. Reagan had given advance approval for Israeli arms sales to Iran in an August 1985 telephone call .
Last night , Mr. Reagan said he did n't think he 'd approved the sales in a phone call .
Erroneously recalling Mr. McFarlane 's testimony , Mr. Reagan last night said his former aide had testified that the approval was given during a meeting at Bethesda Naval Hospital , following the president 's colon cancer surgery in July 1985 .
The Tower Commission also reported that the president changed his account of whether he approved the Israeli sales in advance , first saying he did and later saying he did n't recall doing so .
Last night , Mr. Reagan said he did approve the sales , but could n't remember when .
But when he was asked whether he also could have forgotten that he was told funds from the Iran arms sales were being diverted to the Contras , he replied : `` Oh no .
You would have heard me from -- without opening the door to the office -- if I had been told that at any time .
No .
And I still do not have the answer to that money . ''
The president declined to say whether he thought former National Security Adviser John Poindexter and former National Security Council aide Oliver North had deceived him by secretly funneling military aid to the Contras .
`` I do n't know . . .
I want to get to the bottom of this and find out all that has happened , '' he said .
But he defended his hands-off management , which the Tower board criticized .
`` I think that most people in business would agree that it is a proper management style , '' Mr. Reagan said .
`` You get the best people you can to do a job .
Then you do n't hang over their shoulder. . . .
The only time you move is if there 's incontrovertible evidence that they are not following policy , or they have gone down a road where they are not achieving what we want . ''
Earlier yesterday , it was disclosed that shortly before he tried to commit suicide last month , Mr. McFarlane wrote letters to his lawyer , Leonard Garment , and to three lawmakers , asserting that the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the U.S. secretly offered to give $ 1 million a month to the Nicaraguan rebels in 1984 .
Mr. McFarlane revealed the offer , but not who made it , in written testimony last month to the Tower Commission , which told of the offer in its report .
Bank records made public this month by Contra leader Adolfo Calero show the insurgents received $ 1 million a month from a Swiss bank account between July 6 , 1984 , and Feb. 7 , 1985 , and a further $ 24 million between Feb. 27 and March 25 , 1985 .
Saudi Ambassador Bandar bin Sultan has denied that he or any other Saudi has offered aid to the Contras .
The existence of the letters was disclosed yesterday in the Washington Post and confirmed by Mr. Garment .
John Blair & Co. is close to an agreement to sell its TV station advertising representation operation and program production unit to an investor group led by James H. Rosenfield , a former CBS Inc. executive , industry sources said .
Industry sources put the value of the proposed acquisition at more than $ 100 million .
John Blair was acquired last year by Reliance Capital Group Inc. , which has been divesting itself of John Blair 's major assets .
John Blair represents about 130 local television stations in the placement of national and other advertising .
Mr. Rosenfield stepped down as a senior executive vice president of CBS Broadcasting in December 1985 under a CBS early retirement program .
Neither Mr. Rosenfield nor officials of John Blair could be reached for comment .
South Korea posted a surplus on its current account of $ 419 million in February , in contrast to a deficit of $ 112 million a year earlier , the government said .
The current account comprises trade in goods and services and some unilateral transfers .
MacMillan Bloedel Ltd. said it plans to redeem all of its 9 % , Series J debentures outstanding April 27 .
The forest products company , 50 % -owned by Noranda Inc. , Toronto , said the debentures were issued in Europe and were due Feb. 1 , 1992 .
Guest Supply Inc. said it and some of its officers and directors are facing a shareholder suit in federal court .
The supplier of personal care products for hotels said that the suit , filed in U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey , alleges misrepresentations and omissions in the prospectus for the company 's initial public offering last September .
The suit seeks class-action status on behalf of other company shareholders .
Guest Supply said that the `` claims are without merit '' and that it will contest the action .
A seat on the Chicago Board Options Exchange was sold for $ 340,000 , up $ 5,000 from the previous sale March 11 .
Seats currently are quoted at $ 330,000 bid , $ 345,000 asked .
The record price of $ 342,000 for a full membership on the exchange was set Feb. 27 .
Canada 's seasonally adjusted consumer price index rose 0.3 % in February , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , said .
The February rise followed increases of 0.2 % in January and 0.4 % in December .
Canrad Inc. expects declines in first-quarter net income and sales , but increases in the full year , according to Carl Krieger , chief executive officer .
For the current quarter , Canrad , a maker of microwave equipment and ultraviolet lamps and systems , projects net income of about $ 120,000 , or 10 cents a share , a 70 % decline from year-earlier net of $ 409,000 , or 34 cents a share , adjusted for a recent 5 % stock dividend .
Sales are expected to decrease about 8 % to $ 8.5 million from $ 9.2 million a year earlier .
A drop in incoming orders for its microwave-equipment products used in the telecommunications industry is the major reason for Canrad 's poor performance in the first quarter , Mr. Krieger said .
Microwave equipment is the company 's largest selling item as well as its most profitable , he noted .
Sales of the company 's two other major products -- ultraviolet lamps and motion picture projection equipment -- are ahead of previous estimates , he said .
In spite of the poor performance in the first quarter , Canrad expects overall earnings and sales for 1987 to be higher than the previous year .
Mr. Krieger forecasts that earnings will increase about 7 % to $ 1.6 million , or $ 1.40 a share , from $ 1.5 million , or $ 1.29 a share , in 1986 .
Sales are expected to increase about 10 % to $ 40 million from $ 36.6 million in 1986 .
Mr. Krieger said that microwave equipment sales should be sharply higher in the second and third quarters .
Lyman M. Beggs was named president of the consumer products divisions of this company , which sells consumer products and services .
The unit markets Norelco brand products .
Mr. Beggs , 48 years old , formerly executive vice president of Tambrands Inc. , succeeds Richard Q. Kress , who retired .
North American Philips is 58 % -owned by N.V. Philips of the Netherlands .
EMERALD HOMES L.P. declared an initial quarterly distribution of 30 cents on partnership units , payable May 15 to units of record March 31 .
Phoenix , Ariz.-based Emerald , which designs and sells single-family homes , had its initial public offering on Feb. 6 .
It has 5,225,000 units outstanding .
British government bond prices advanced 1 2/32 Friday as the market continued to consolidate recent gains .
Dealers reported a little profit-taking by domestic institutions and some unwinding of positions by major market-makers who had prepared themselves for further Japanese buying overnight .
As it happened , Far Eastern interest was limited .
Analysts said the market 's performance was very resilient considering the nearly four-point rally it staged following the release last week of Britain 's fiscal 1988 budget .
Fixed-rate Eurodollar bonds were unchanged to up 1/8 point on light turnover .
Most dollar-denominated issues are suffering from a lack of interest , traders said .
Investors remain skeptical about the dollar 's prospects , and recent data have n't presented a clear picture of where the U.S. economy stands .
Eurodollar bonds closed little changed and Morgan Guaranty Ltd. tested a novel approach for repackaging perpetual floating-rate Euronotes .
In new issues , Morgan Guaranty took $ 130 million of a total of $ 500 million of perpetual floating-rate notes issued by Westpac Banking Corp. , a large Australian bank , and restructured the issue into two new securities : a 15-year floating-rate note , and a 15-year zero-coupon bond .
The new 15-year floating-rate issue , priced at 100.10 , adjusts semi-annually at 50 basis points above the six-month London interbank offered rate .
The zero-coupon class , priced at 20 , converts into the underlying Westpac perpetual floating-rate note at maturity .
Deutsche mark government and Eurobond prices were up about 1/8 to 1/4 point , falling back after gaining as much as 1/2 point on fairly widespread buying interest at the start .
Dealers said most of the buying had come from Japanese investors , who had sought government bonds with 1996 and 1997 maturities .
Swiss Franc foreign bonds closed little changed as the recent rise in Swiss interest rates continues to limit participation .
Lac Minerals Ltd. said it will suspend underground operations at its Lake Shore mine in Kirkland Lake , Ontario , effective April 30 .
Lac said it completed mining of the present ore body .
Lake Shore , in production since 1983 , accounted for 10,600 ounces , or about 2.2 % , of Lac 's 1986 gold output of 479,264 ounces .
The company said it does n't expect the suspension to affect its earnings .
Lac said it will continue a $ 2.5 million surface-exploration program this year to determine whether further underground exploration is warranted .
The suspension will affect 44 hourly and salaried employees , Lac said .
Joseph Perkins 's defense of industrial homework -LRB- editorial page , March 6 -RRB- was correct on only one point : that employers use it to lower costs so they can underprice competitors .
The employer unfairly passes on his overhead for rent , machinery , repairs and electricity to the worker ; piece rates invariably yield below the minimum wage in homework settings ; benefits are unheard of , and even statutory benefits , such as Social Security , workers ' compensation and unemployment compensation , are typically evaded .
The only disadvantage for the employer , apart from the illegality , is quality control , since homework makes supervision and investment in sophisticated machinery impossible .
However , employers have a simple , if crude , method of quality control -- they do n't pay for garments that do n't meet standards or they send them back to be redone for no extra pay .
Knowing how advantageous homework is to the unscrupulous employer , Mr. Perkins should have known better than to fall for Norma Kamali 's fairy tale about the wonderful wages and conditions of her homeworkers .
The Kamali homeworkers with whom ILGWU organizers have spoken at length tell a very different story .
It was Miss Kamali who asked her workers to take work home , not vice versa .
Miss Kamali 's homeworkers were paid piece rates that yielded $ 2 an hour and less .
They received no benefits , and were ineligible for unemployment compensation when Miss Kamali had no work .
The low piece rates forced them to work long hours , and one had her children help sew .
Mr. Perkins implies that there was a positive determination that there were no violations of the minimum wage .
In fact , no investigation was completed , but one is under way .
Departments of labor often do not charge illegal homework employers because minimum-wage violations are nearly impossible to prove .
Record-keeping is nonexistent and homeworkers are frightened to speak up , knowing that they may lose the little income they have or , in the case of undocumented workers , risk exposure to the Immigration and Naturalization Service .
The inability to enforce labor standards is the reason homework was banned in 1942 and 1943 in seven apparel-related industries .
Mr. Perkins asserts that sweatshop conditions are `` very rare today . ''
In fact , a resurgence of the sweatshop began in major cities in the latter 1970s , fueled by highly competitive conditions in the import-battered garment industry and a vulnerable work force of recent immigrants .
In the 1980s , farm distress has brought similar conditions to rural America .
Mr. Perkins accuses our union of forcing manufacturers to go overseas by `` raising the cost of doing business in this country . ''
The ILGWU has fought for fair trade for many years , for precisely the same reason we fight against homework .
We do not believe that American workers should be forced to compete with inhumane standards .
Union garment workers earn modest wages -- about $ 6 an hour -- but they cannot compete with workers overseas earning 50 cents and less or with homeworkers who make $ 2 and pay their own overhead .
America cannot be strong if `` competitiveness '' is regained on the backs of workers paid poverty wages to work long hours in sweatshop conditions .
Particularly disturbing to me was Mr. Perkins 's assertion that homework violations are trivial and seldom produce charges of wage underpayment .
It is important to understand that record-keeping violations are not minor infractions ; records are essential to ensure that homeworkers receive the legal protection to which they are entitled .
While Mr. Perkins accurately stated that a 1983 court ruling allowed the Department of Labor to rewrite its homework regulations , he neglected to point out that the court questioned government 's ability to enforce the Fair Labor Standards Act -LRB- FLSA -RRB- in the seven apparel industries covered by the regulatory prohibition .
The court identified four impediments to the effective enforcement of the minimum wage among homeworkers : difficulty in locating and identifying workers ; inadequate or nonexistent record-keeping ; difficulty in establishing and remedying violations , and the strain on governmental resources .
The impediments remain .
After hearings last fall , our subcommittee concluded that repealing the ban on industrial homework constitutes an abdication of the department 's FLSA responsibilities .
Miss Kamali should be aware that this country will not allow any industry to blackmail workers with the threat of job exportation .
Mr. Perkins must recognize the real threat of industrial homework -- an unprotected and exploited work force .
Enviropact Inc. said it signed a letter of intent to acquire closely held Willms Trucking Co. , Charleston , S.C. , for $ 12.5 million in cash , notes and stock .
Enviropact said the proposed acquisition of Willms , a hazardous-waste treatment and transportation concern , will mark its entry into the business of directly hauling hazardous waste .
Enviropact , an environmental services concern , said it expects to complete the transaction in 45 days .
The federal government 's budget deficit widened to $ 28.37 billion in February from $ 24.58 billion a year earlier , the Treasury said .
The deficit in January was $ 2.17 billion .
In its monthly statement for February , the Treasury said federal government receipts totaled $ 55.46 billion , up from $ 53.37 billion a year before but down from $ 81.77 billion in January .
Outlays totaled $ 83.83 billion , compared with $ 77.95 billion a year earlier and $ 83.94 billion a month before .
Through the first five months of fiscal 1987 , which ends next Sept. 30 , the government has racked up a deficit of $ 93.92 billion , compared with $ 106.2 billion in the like period a year earlier .
The Reagan administration 's most recent estimate for the fiscal 1987 deficit is $ 143.91 billion .
The deficit for all of fiscal 1986 was $ 220.7 billion .
The government paid $ 13.7 billion in interest on the federal debt in February , up from $ 13.49 billion in January .
The West German government said it will proceed today with the sale of its remaining 25.55 % stake in VEBA AG , an energy , chemicals and trading group .
A spokesman for Deutsche Bank AG , one of the banks leading the placement , said the government 's 10.1 million nominal shares will be priced at the equivalent of $ 136.70 each , converting the West German mark at its current rate , bringing the issue 's total value to $ 1.38 billion .
The issue is one of Germany 's biggest .
The shares will be sold at a small discount to Veba 's market price .
Veba rose 82 cents , to $ 138.65 , on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange Friday .
The announcement late Friday contradicted rumors earlier last week that the Finance Ministry would postpone the sale because of the recent drop in German share prices .
The government announced the sale of its Veba holding in January , when it expected to receive the current equivalent of between $ 147.65 and $ 169.50 for each share .
That would have valued the holding at between $ 1.49 billion and $ 1.71 billion .
But German share prices subsequently entered a prolonged slump .
The center-right government of Chancellor Helmut Kohl has in recent years returned several large industrial stakes to the public sector .
In 1984 , the Bonn government lowered its stake in Veba to the current 25.55 % from 43.75 % .
The government had planned to sell a 16 % stake in Volkswagen AG later this year , but following news of an alleged foreign-exchange fraud that cost the auto maker as much as $ 259 million , Finance Minister Gerhard Stoltenberg said that the sale may be put off .
The Veba shares will be placed through a consortium of 38 German and 33 foreign banks .
About 20 % of the government stake will be sold to foreigners .
Taxation is fast becoming an issue in the run-up to the Australian federal election , likely to take place before the end of 1987 .
Pressure for tax reform comes from a combination of high marginal tax rates on average incomes and rapid bracket creep .
Come July , the three highest rates -- 43 % , 46 % and 55 % -- will be replaced by two rates -- 40 % and 49 % .
But most people will carry a heavier tax burden during 1987 because inflation , now running at an annual rate of 12 % , will push them into higher brackets .
By the end of 1987 the proportion of income earners paying tax at a marginal rate of 40 % or more will have reached almost one-half ; 10 years ago it was about one-fifth .
Hardly any of the participants in the tax debate , however , are taking account of the positive revenue effects of lower tax rates .
Instead , it is widely assumed that income-tax cuts must be wholly financed by some combination of higher indirect taxes and cuts in public expenditure .
This assumption virtually destroyed Prime Minister Bob Hawke 's original tax-reform policies .
His government held a `` tax summit '' in 1985 to secure consent for its plans for a broad-based consumption tax , deemed necessary to offset large cuts in income tax .
The summit was a failure , since it was dominated by representatives of the many interests that stood to lose in the short term from any major shift to indirect taxation .
Collectively they vetoed the consumption tax .
Trapped by its own analysis , the government made minor cuts in income-tax rates and introduced new and unpopular taxes on fringe benefits and capital gains .
But having generated community interest in tax reform and having politicized so many interest groups with its summit , the government finds it has created a major issue without controlling the terms of the debate .
Recent events have served to focus the debate .
First , the premier of the state of Queensland , Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen , has announced his intention to become Australia 's next prime minister and to implement a 25 % single-rate income tax without any increases in indirect tax .
Sir Joh 's ambitions have received a serious setback with the failure of his candidates to win a single seat in the March Northern Territory Assembly election .
But the wave of popular support he has attracted across the nation has forced opponents to take the flat-rate-tax idea seriously .
Second , Treasurer Paul Keating has ended speculation that the Labor government was planning to repudiate the outcome of the 1985 tax summit , to introduce a consumption tax and to cut income-tax rates substantially .
In February he announced that no major reforms were planned ; he emphasized the need for tax stability at a time of economic difficulty , noting that a consumption tax would drive the inflation rate to disastrous levels .
Given the government 's commitment to holding expenditure at its existing level , the implication was that any revenue increases would be devoted exclusively to reducing the budget deficit .
This is also the purpose of the expenditure-cutting financial statement the treasurer has since announced for May 14 .
These priorities have been endorsed by a variety of Australians and organizations , from former deputy secretary to the Federal Treasury , Des Moore , to the Australian Institute for Public Policy and the Australian Chamber of Commerce .
In `` Mandate to Govern , '' a recent study published by the latter two groups , the argument was that spending cuts must come first .
No doubt taxes are easier to reform in times of high economic growth .
But then such growth will be slower to arrive without tax cuts , and when it does , the pressure for reform will be that much lower .
Another voice raised was that of the Centre of Policy Studies -LRB- COPS -RRB- , an independent policy-research institute attached to Monash University , Melbourne .
In February it published `` Tax Reform -- the Next Steps , '' putting forth three options , all of which envisage a top marginal tax rate of 30 % .
This tax cut would be accompanied by a range of additional fiscal measures , including the removal of the existing tax-free threshold from high-income earners .
The three options are as follows : abolishing the threshold and appropriately redesigning the social-security system ; using the American method of recapturing the threshold by a 5 % tax surcharge over a high-income range , or by a flat , broad-based consumption tax of 10 % .
At the launching of the report , one of the authors noted that tax cuts should be partially self-financing through benign incentive and revenue effects .
But the COPS strategy is based on the interlocking assumptions that tax cuts must be financed by expenditure cuts and that the voters will accept expenditure cuts only if they are compensated through tax cuts .
The report recommends expenditure cuts of $ 3.42 billion -LRB- $ 5 billion Australian -RRB- for this particular purpose , and a further $ 2.05 billion to remove the current budget deficit .
But however questionable the former of these assumptions may be , the COPS report does provide a comprehensive and much-needed set of proposals for cutting the huge outlays on health , education and welfare .
The structure of the Australian welfare state offers wide scope for such cuts .
Although , like most Western welfare systems , it maintains the incomes of the poorest groups , it does so in a highly inefficient way .
The steady accumulation of spending programs , especially those providing universal health and education services , has resulted in much tax revenue being simply churned back into the pockets of the same taxpayers .
But since the middle-income groups stand to gain more in the immediate term from tax cuts than do the poor , it should in principle be possible to get them off the state welfare rolls and into private provision .
This would enable governments to target public assistance to the needy .
The COPS report actually proposes spending cuts in excess of $ 8.9 billion .
It finds $ 680 million from replacing free higher education with student fees of between $ 3,424 and $ 4,109 annually .
Doing away with the universal Medicare scheme would save $ 6.8 billion , while preserving health-related benefits for the medically needy and the lower-income groups .
Welfare savings of $ 1.37 billion could result from scrapping tax shelters for the well-off , from means-testing family allowances and from reforming the unemployment-benefit scheme .
Finally , $ 342 million might be saved by eliminating job-creation schemes and training subsidies .
The next move is up to the opposition Liberal-National coalition , which has still not announced its tax policy .
It could frustrate the government 's hope of fighting the election on the issue of a consumption tax by adopting one of the COPS tax-cutting options that relies entirely on existing taxes .
In addition , the coalition could advance the tax debate considerably by stressing the revenue increases that could be expected from lower tax rates .
In this way it could avoid having its timetable of tax reductions retarded by the inevitably slow pace of expenditure cuts .
Mr. James is senior lecturer in politics at La Trobe University , Melbourne , and a visiting research fellow at the Centre for Independent Studies , a Sydney-based public policy research institute .
A campaign by Dixons Group PLC to acquire Cyclops Corp. stalled as the British concern , facing a challenge from the Securities and Exchange Commission , had to reopen its tender offer for the Pittsburgh-based company .
London-based Dixons , an electrical appliance retailer , had claimed victory over a group of competing bidders after snaring 54 % of Cyclops 's 4.3 million shares outstanding with a $ 384 million , or $ 90.25-a-share , tender offer that expired Wednesday .
But Dixons , disclosing objections from the SEC , agreed on Friday to reopen its offer until 12:01 a.m. this Wednesday .
The extension enables Cyclops holders who have already tendered their shares to recall them and tender to a competing group of bidders led by Audio/Video Affiliates Inc. , a Dayton , Ohio-based consumer electronics retailer .
SEC objections revolved around Dixons 's last-minute decision to waive a condition that 80 % of shares outstanding be tendered , Dixons said .
The British concern dropped the requirement Wednesday after its tender offer attracted only a modest majority of Cyclops shares .
Officials of Cyclops , a specialty steel maker and consumer appliance and electronics retailer , and Morgan Stanley & Co. , which advised Dixons in the transaction , declined to comment .
Dixons said in a prepared statement that it agreed to the extension `` in order to settle the dispute and to expedite completion of the offer , although the company does not agree with the SEC 's position . ''
Meanwhile , the bidding stakes for Cyclops heated up as the Audio/Video group raised its tender offer Friday to $ 92.50 a share .
Among other things , the group conditioned its offer on receipt of the same confidential financial data Cyclops management provided Dixons .
In agreeing last month to be acquired by Dixons , Cyclops rebuffed an earlier bid of $ 80 a share from the Audio/Video group , which also includes Citicorp Capital Investors Ltd. , a Citicorp unit .
`` It 's like trying to play poker with a deck of marked cards , '' Stuart Rose , Audio/Video chairman and chief executive officer , said of his group 's inability so far to look at Cyclops 's internal financial records .
`` I can n't understand what the downside is in Cyclops ' showing it to us , '' said Mr. Rose , adding that several Cyclops holders -- not Audio/Video -- had complained to the SEC about Dixons 's waiver of the 80 % tender requirement .
Reopening of Dixons 's tender offer effectively postpones , for now , the British retailer 's effort to take control of Cyclops .
Shortly after its tender expired Wednesday , Dixons began moving to pay tendering holders and took charge of Cyclops 's board , placing three Dixons executives on the board and accepting resignations from seven Cyclops directors .
Also on Friday , in a lawsuit filed by Audio/Video , a federal judge in Dayton , Ohio , denied the company 's request for an order forcing Cyclops to provide Audio/Video with information provided to Dixons .
Judge Walter H. Rice also denied a motion for a temporary restraining order that would enable Cyclops holders to recall shares previously tendered to Dixons .
Audio/Video 's Mr. Rose said the latter request was moot following Dixons ' extension of its tender .
Dixons , terming the lawsuit `` frivolous , '' said it will seek dismissal of the action .
Audio/Video 's revised bid was announced as the stock market closed on Friday .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading Friday , Cyclops shares rose $ 1.50 , to $ 90.50 .
The lure of Cyclops for both suitors is its Silo Inc. retailing division , which operates a nationwide chain of appliance and consumer electronics stores .
Dixons plans to retain Silo and sell Cyclops 's steel and nonresidential construction businesses .
Separately , Halcyon Investments , a New York securities partnership , said it bought a 7.1 % stake in Cyclops 's shares outstanding for investment purposes .
In an SEC filing , the partnership said it holds 288,000 Cyclops shares , purchased Feb. 6 to March 13 for $ 84.189 to $ 93.262 each .
An investment group including Mutual Shares Corp. said it holds 5.1 % of Unicorp American Corp. 's common as an investment .
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , the group including the New York investment company said it holds 555,057 shares , including 59,800 purchased Jan. 23 through Feb. 6 for $ 14 to $ 14.37 each .
Unicorp American , a New York real estate and financial services company , could n't be reached for comment .
The company 's shares rose 12.5 cents a share , to $ 14.125 , in American Stock Exchange composite trading Friday .
John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co. said it sold its 13.1 % stake in Price Communications Corp. back to the company .
In a Securities and Exchange Commission filing , John Hancock , Boston , said it sold its 1,627,603 Price common shares back to the New York-based broadcasting company on Feb. 23 for $ 11 each .
John Hancock did n't give a reason in the filing for the sales .
A John Hancock spokesman said the company 's John Hancock Capital Growth Fund subsidiary had owned the shares .
No one at the unit could be reached for comment .
Congress , setting up a confrontation with President Reagan , cleared a five-year , $ 88 billion highway bill that includes a provision to let states raise the speed limit on interstate highways .
The Senate Friday voted 60-21 to allow states to increase the speed limit to 65 miles per hour , from 55 mph currently , on most rural interstate highways .
The speed-limit provision then was folded into the overall highway bill and sent to the White House .
President Reagan has vowed to veto the measure as too costly .
While proponents of the combined bill stand a good chance of being able to muster the two-thirds vote necessary to override a presidential veto , some on Capitol Hill said such an outcome was n't assured .
The House approved the highway spending provisions last Wednesday by an overwhelming 407-17 vote .
But the speed-limit change squeaked through that chamber 217-206 .
Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole -LRB- R. , Kan. -RRB- had said Thursday that he planned to try to get the Senate to adopt a cheaper highway bill that might be acceptable to the president and avert a veto .
But Sen. Dole announced Friday that he decided against offering the amendment .
Instead , he said he would propose a less-expensive highway bill -- probably the four-year , $ 65 billion one the Senate approved earlier this year -- after Mr. Reagan 's expected veto of the more costly measure .
President Reagan suggested Friday that he would accept the earlier Senate version .
`` I am in full support of reasonable funding levels for these programs similar to the legislation passed by the Senate , '' he said in a statement put out by the White House .
`` But I am adamantly opposed to the excessive spending that is in the bill as it emerged from the conference committee . ''
The president objected mainly to the inclusion , at the House 's insistence , of extra funds for more than 150 special highway projects .
He also opposed funding levels for mass transit .
The bill authorizes about $ 18 billion for mass transit and $ 70 billion for highway programs .
Mr. Reagan supports granting states the authority to raise the speed limit , but he will n't be able to sign that portion of the bill separately from the spending provisions .
The 55 mph national speed limit was set in 1974 in response to an energy crisis , but supporters say that it has saved thousands of lives since then .
Critics say it is widely ignored and difficult to enforce .
Backers of the overall highway bill warned that if President Reagan 's expected veto is n't overridden , Congress might be unable to act on new highway legislation for several more months .
That could jeopardize the summer construction season and tens of thousands of jobs .
The highway program expired Sept. 30 .
Congress deadlocked last October over reauthorization legislation .
State officials and highway groups say several states already are running low on highway cash , and are pressing hard for new legislation .
June M. Rodgers , who made a small fortune from fast-food franchises , loaned her new husband , Allen C. Smith , more than $ 125,000 for his business .
He had led her to believe it was worth more than $ 1 million .
She learned the truth some six months later when the vending-machine company stopped operating and put itself into bankruptcy .
She got a divorce -- and nothing from the bankruptcy settlement .
So she took a bad-debt deduction on her tax return .
But that was n't the end of her problem : The deduction was challenged by the Internal Revenue Service , on the claim that Ms. Rodgers had actually made a gift to Mr. Smith .
Ms. Rodgers took the matter to Tax Court , where she eventually won .
Others claiming such deductions do n't always succeed .
The IRS frequently challenges people who write off loans to friends , relatives or their own businesses .
`` I found it to be one of the major audit triggers on personal tax returns , '' says Bernie D. Goldstein , senior managing partner of Goldstein & Schmerling , a Nashville , Tenn. , accounting firm .
If the IRS challenges the deduction , then the taxpayer must prove that a bona fide debt existed , that it became uncollectible and that the write-off was taken in the year that the debt became worthless .
Being soft-hearted can turn a bona fide debt into a nondeductible gift .
Deciding against suing a relative , even though he may be able to pay off the debt , means becoming unentitled to a bad-debt deduction , says Alfred B. Greenberg , a partner in Phillips Gold & Co. , a New York accounting firm .
`` What you have really done is made a gift , '' he says .
To take the deduction , `` you need to be able to show that you made an honest effort to collect the debt , '' says Nancy Anderson , a senior tax-research and training specialist at H & R Block Inc. in Kansas City , Mo. .
A letter from a lawyer saying that collection efforts would be fruitless , because the debtor is insolvent , usually is proof of a debt 's worthlessness .
So is the debtor 's filing a bankruptcy petition unless collateral is involved .
Then a lender may have to await the outcome of a bankruptcy proceeding to establish that nothing can be recovered on the debt .
If a partial recovery is made , the uncollectible amount normally is deductible .
The IRS requires taxpayers who take a bad-debt deduction to attach a statement to their returns listing the amount of debt , when it became due , the names of the debtors and whether they are relatives , plus what efforts were made to collect the money , and when and why the debt became worthless .
IRS Publication 548 , available free from the IRS , explains the government 's position on bad-debt write-offs .
A frequent error that taxpayers make is taking a business bad-debt deduction for a non-business debt .
An owner who lends money to his firm 's customers to retain their business usually is considered to have business debt , because there was a business motive for the loans .
But an owner who lends money to his own business is generally deemed to make a non-business loan .
The IRS sees such loans as protection for the owner 's investment , not as part of the business itself -- since he is n't in the loan business .
It is an important distinction .
A business bad debt is fully deductible in the year it becomes worthless .
But a non-business bad debt is treated as a short-term capital loss , only $ 3,000 of which can be deducted each year .
The excess is carried forward and $ 3,000 is deductible each year until the amount is exhausted .
A taxpayer who has to make good as the guarantor of someone else 's debt is n't necessarily entitled to a bad-debt deduction .
If the guarantee was done as a favor for family or friends , the IRS considers it a non-deductible gift .
But an owner who makes good on loans he guaranteed for his business normally would be entitled to a non-business bad-debt deduction .
Mr. Goldstein contends that the co-signer of a note can take a non-business bad-debt deduction if he makes good on a note in order to maintain his own credit standing .
`` The IRS might argue that you did n't have to pay off the note , '' he says .
`` But I would argue that your name is on that note and you could n't afford to have your reputation impugned at the bank . ''
Attaching to the tax return a letter from the bank demanding payment should help to sustain the deduction , he says .
Now that the Food and Drug Administration has approved the first prescription drug for AIDS , concern is mounting over just how many patients can afford the treatment , and who will pay for it .
The federal agency gave clearance Friday to Burroughs-Wellcome Co. , the U.S. unit of London-based Wellcome PLC , to market azidothymidine , or AZT , in the U.S. .
The drug is for treatment of acquired immune deficiency syndrome , and its related pneumonia , as well as for severe AIDS-related complex , known as ARC .
More than 32,000 Americans have been diagnosed with the disease , and 10 times that number are believed to suffer from ARC , a set of symptoms similar to AIDS .
The company estimates 15,000 patients in each category will qualify for the drug , which will be marketed under the name Retrovir .
Developed with an urgency that matched the swift and fatal course of the epidemic , AZT prolonged survival for patients in a six-month controlled trial last year .
Its major side effects include severe anemia and bone marrow suppression , necessitating blood transfusions or a halt in treatment for one-third to one-half of the AIDS patients on the drug .
Still , `` AZT is a first step that shows how rapidly progress can be made when the government and private sector work together , '' says Samuel Broder of the National Cancer Institute , who administered the first test dose to AIDS patient Joseph Rafuse just 20 months ago .
This makes AZT the fastest drug development story since anti-malarial agents were sped to GIs in World War II , he says .
The drug 's price -- $ 8,300 a year wholesale and $ 10,000 retail -- indicates a hefty $ 250 million in annual revenue for the company , based on treatment of 30,000 patients .
Michael Sorell , an analyst with Morgan Stanley & Co. , says he expects the drug will be `` a big profit maker for Wellcome , '' and the market reacted favorably .
In London trading Friday , Wellcome shares closed at the equivalent of $ 7.97 , up 62 cents .
But the price and revenue figures alarm physicians and consumer advocates around the country .
`` It 's expensive .
For patients , it 's a potential hardship , '' says Lawrence Kaplan , medical director of the AIDS clinic at San Francisco General Hospital .
Unanswered questions about insurance and Medicaid coverage further cloud the picture , because `` many patients are n't working , and survive on government subsidy , '' explains a spokeswoman for the San Francisco AIDS Foundation .
`` Only the privileged and rich will be able to handle the cost , '' adds Lionel Resnick , of the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami .
`` It does n't take much to realize that we have a very big problem . ''
`` I think the extraordinarily high price of the drug needs to be justified by the company in very clear terms , because it will clearly limit access to patients who could benefit , '' says Jerome Groopman of New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston .
But David Barry , vice president for research at Burroughs-Wellcome , says : `` I think it 's a fair price .
It 's a price we had to charge to stay in business . ''
The company , based in Research Triangle Park , N.C. , has committed a total of $ 80 million in research and development of the drug , including about $ 10 million in free drug given to nearly 5,000 patients who participated in the clinical trial .
He reiterates that AZT is expensive to make , requiring seven months of work to produce six chemical reactions that result in the drug .
The material , thymidine , was once obtained from herring sperm but is now purchased in synthesized form from New York-based Pfizer Corp. .
Dr. Barry also argues that because AZT prolongs life and reduces episodes of infection , AIDS patients will require less hospitalization and will be able to return to work .
Thus , Burroughs-Wellcome officials figure a potential 25 % reduction in the cost of care for patients on AZT , he says .
`` I have no compunction about charging this price , '' Dr. Barry says .
`` No one flinches at hundreds of dollars a day in hospital costs , but everyone expects a drug that prevents hospitalization to be much less . ''
But AZT 's price places it clearly beyond the reach of the many patients who are indigent or uninsured .
About 40 % of AIDS patients are on Medicaid or will be , according to the federal Health Care Financing Administration .
But not all states pay for prescription drugs under Medicaid ; it is their option to offer the benefit .
Two states , Alaska and Wyoming , offer no coverage for prescription drugs under Medicaid , and Florida , which has the fourth-highest incidence of AIDS , limits prescription drug benefits to $ 22 a month , according to a staffer of a congressional health committee .
`` It makes for a very ugly situation , '' says Dr. Resnick in Miami .
`` I 'm very frustrated .
The government has to take a lead role .
We have a lot of poor patients , and I would like to see them on the drug . ''
Moreover , ARC patients have a tougher time qualifying than those with a formal AIDS diagnosis .
In California , for example , patients with an AIDS diagnosis receive Medicaid .
But San Francisco General 's Dr. Kaplan worries : `` It 's more difficult for patients with ARC .
Some are n't eligible for MediCal -LRB- California 's Medicaid -RRB- at this stage . ''
He adds that `` the issue of whether third-party payers or MediCal will be covering -LRB- treatment -RRB- remains to be resolved .
We expect that they will . ''
One physician , who asked not to be named , warns : `` Either it 'll be on the taxpayer 's back , or patients will be robbing pharmacies . . . .
These are desperate , dying patients . ''
Some physicians fear illegal trade in the drug will arise .
But federal health officials are anxiously studying the drug 's impact on federal health programs .
William L. Roper , the financing agency 's administrator , estimates Medicaid may spend $ 50 million on AZT in 1987 , and $ 150 million in 1988 .
Burroughs-Wellcome executives recently faced questions on Capitol Hill that ranged from sharp to hostile , when the House Subcommittee on Health and the Environment held hearings on the cost of AZT. Rep. Ron Wyden -LRB- D. , Ore. -RRB- asked : `` How did you arrive at a price of $ 10,000 ?
Why did n't you set it at $ 100,000 ? ''
T.E. Haigler Jr. , Burroughs-Wellcome president , testified that the company 's involvement in AZT research `` involved a significant amount of risk . ''
He added , `` Because the full usefulness of AZT and the efficacy and speed of introduction of competitive products are unknown , our financial returns are uncertain . ''
Indeed , some physicians and patient advocates hope competition will come soon to force a moderation of AZT 's steep price .
Other drugs currently are being tested , including interferon , ribavirin , AL-721 , isoprinosine , Imreg-1 and GM-CSF .
Some think competition may come from Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. , recently designated the government 's licensee for the development , testing and possible marketing of DDC , or dideoxycytidine .
Hoffmann is the U.S. unit of F. Hoffmann-La Roche & Co. , Switzerland .
The drug is a sister drug of AZT that scientists at the National Institutes of Health have found more potent in the test tube at lower doses , thus prompting hopes that the drug might work with fewer side effects .
But only a handful of patients have received DDC , and despite a preliminary observation that it raised the count of their T-cells -- immune system cells normally ravaged by the virus -- clinical efficacy remains to be proven in larger trials .
The National Cancer Institute also is working on a third related compound , dideoxyadenosine , but has n't named a commercial licensee .
`` In the foreseeable future , it 's likely we 'll have a number of possible strategies for the treatment of AIDS , '' says NCI 's Dr. Broder .
`` So at some point , competition may be a real factor in reducing overall costs of anti-viral therapy . ''
But for now , AZT 's availability is going to be the chief concern for many patients .
Burroughs-Wellcome 's Dr. Barry says the company has only enough to provide for 15,000 initially , but expects to supply doses for 30,000 by year 's end .
Further , distribution will be tightly allocated under a company program that requires doctors to obtain a form from Burroughs-Wellcome -- by calling 1-800-843-9388 -- and fill out a description of an eligible patient 's symptoms .
The company then will assign a confidential patient number , and allocate a month 's dose to the patient 's local pharmacy .
Dr. Groopman in Boston says he is skeptical that pharmaceutical representatives can effectively control retail distribution .
Dr. Barry counters that the program `` is actually very streamlined and straightforward . ''
But he acknowledges , `` There 's always the possibility of fraud . ''
AZT -- by now a textbook case on the serendipity and complexity of drug development -- was created in 1964 by Jerome Horwitz of the Michigan Cancer Foundation as a possible chemotherapy drug .
But it did n't work and was shelved for a decade until acquired by Burroughs-Wellcome as a possible anti-microbial agent .
When NCI began mass-screening drugs against the AIDS virus in the test tube , Burroughs-Wellcome became one of about 50 companies and private labs to send in candidate products .
A sample of AZT was sent to NCI under the code name `` compound S , '' and in February 1985 , scientists identified it as a potent virus killer in the test tube .
Even before the controversy over AZT 's cost , its development and testing as an AIDS drug was marked by urgency , intermittent raw-materials shortages and bitter public debate over the second phase of the clinical trial , in which some patients were merely given a sugar-pill placebo .
Patient advocates decried the practice , while researchers maintained it was necessary to establish objective proof of the drug 's effectiveness .
By midsummer 1986 , word leaked that patients on AZT were enjoying longer survival than patients in the control group .
An independent monitoring board in September publicly confirmed the striking six-month results : Only one of 145 patients receiving the drug had died , while 19 of 137 patients receiving the placebo had died .
The research group then decided to end the controlled experiment , and provided the drug to the placebo group .
Since then , 10 other patients in the original AZT group and 16 in the placebo group have died .
The side effects , however , require that doctors `` treat this drug with respect , '' Dr. Broder cautions .
Despite the brevity of the clinical trial and concern about side effects , an advisory panel to the FDA met last January and , spurred by the rapid and fatal course of the AIDS epidemic , voted 10-1 to recommend AZT receive full agency approval .
Since then , both Britain and France have granted market clearance to the drug .
Notwithstanding its approval , AZT must now submit to continuing tests in groups not covered by the FDA approval : children under 12 with AIDS ; patients with Kaposi 's Sarcoma , which is an AIDS-linked malignancy ; those with AIDS-related neurological disease , and carriers of the virus who show no symptoms .
Also planned are studies of its effects in combination with other drugs such as the herpes drug acyclovir , or the immune-system booster interferon .
Finally , Burroughs-Wellcome says it plans to fund a clinical trial in Africa , which is where AIDS is believed to have originated .
Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. Inc. said it raised prices on some of its 1987-model cars as much as 2.9 % .
The auto maker said the price increases result from the continued appreciation of the yen against the dollar .
The average increase is about 1.8 % , Toyota said .
The biggest increase , $ 350 , is on the Toyota Celica coupe , which will cost $ 12,388 .
The smallest increase is on the Toyota Tercel three-door liftback , which jumped 1.4 % , or $ 100 , to $ 7,458 , the company said .
Toyota said the prices of 16 1987 models were n't increased .
Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A. is the U.S. sales arm of Japan-based Toyota Motor Corp. .
A journalist recently asked Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak how he would like to be known among his people .
He replied that , above all , he wanted to be known as `` a head of state who truly believes in democracy . ''
The burly , plain-spoken Mr. Mubarak often waxes eloquent about his desire to give Egypt true democracy .
Now , 1987 is shaping up as the year when he has to back up his words with action .
Mr. Mubarak already has liberalized Egypt 's election laws , scheduled elections for the national legislature and begun laying the groundwork for his own reelection to a second six-year term as president .
All this maneuvering , political observers agree , is designed to win an undisputed electoral mandate that will allow him to rule decisively in the tough economic times that lie ahead for Egypt .
But in a country with a history of sham elections , vote rigging and near-dictatorial rule by the president , many are skeptical that Mr. Mubarak will give Egyptians a truly free voice .
Opposition politicians already are grumbling about the new election law , which sets rules for the April 6 national-legislative elections .
They assert that the law , while fairer than the one it replaced , still is written to ensure that Mr. Mubarak 's ruling National Democratic Party remains in control of the legislature , known as the People 's Assembly .
Despite Mr. Mubarak 's moves to open up Egypt 's political system , he and his ruling National Democratic Party still hold nearly all the power .
The president , a former air force general with strong ties to the military , makes foreign policy decisions with little interference .
The 458-seat People 's Assembly does debate and pass laws affecting domestic policy .
But it is tame by Western standards and clearly run by the ruling party , which holds 389 of the seats .
There are four small opposition parties , ranging from the conservative Wafd to the leftist Progressive Unionist Grouping .
They are noisy but have little clout , and only three of them are represented in the assembly .
Still , serious political campaigning is under way by the ruling party as well as the opposition .
Hundreds of handpainted campaign banners flutter in the Cairo breeze , candidates barnstorm the countryside and Islamic groups hold street rallies for their candidates .
The election is important mostly because the new assembly will nominate a single candidate for president when Mr. Mubarak 's term expires in October .
The nominee then will have to be approved in a national referendum .
The assembly almost certainly will nominate Mr. Mubarak if he wants to run again .
While the president 's supporters once thought he might n't accept another term , they now say the flurry of political activity proves he wants to be reelected .
Mr. Mubarak seems deeply concerned that his reelection appear fair and legitimate .
He apparently is bargaining that the public will consider the new People 's Assembly to have been fairly elected , so a cloud of illegitimacy will n't hang over his head when the assembly nominates him for reelection .
`` He is keen to be nominated by a constitutional body , '' explains Mohammed Sid-Ahmed , a writer and prominent figure in the leftist Progressive Unionist Grouping party .
`` The coming period is a very critical economic period .
He wants the central authority to be solid . ''
Mr. Mubarak , who took office when Anwar Sadat was assassinated by Moslem extremists in 1981 , maintains that the development of democracy will keep Egypt stable at a time when low oil prices , fewer jobs for Egyptians in the Persian Gulf and galloping population growth are unsettling the economic climate .
He also believes that the development of democracy in Egypt , the most populous Arab nation and a traditional leader in the region , will affect the entire Middle East .
Mr. Mubarak already has allowed opposition political parties to operate freely and to publish newspapers that often are harshly critical of the government .
He also allowed relatively free campaigning for the previous People 's Assembly election in 1984 -- though charges of vote-rigging arose after the ruling party won 73 % of the seats .
Opposition politicians have sought in Egyptian courts to have the law under which the People 's Assembly was elected in 1984 declared unconstitutional .
They say that because the law required all candidates to belong to political parties , independents were effectively banned .
Instead of fighting back in the courts , Mr. Mubarak issued a decree Feb. 4 dissolving the existing People 's Assembly and scheduling elections under a new law allowing independent candidates .
But opposition parties still are n't happy because , while independent candidates are free to run , the new law still says that parties must win at least 8 % of the national vote to get any seats in the legislature .
This threshold makes it difficult for the country 's small opposition parties to win any seats at all .
Only the conservative Wafd opposition party won more than the required 8 % in the 1984 election , and it took 59 seats .
Two other opposition parties are represented in the People 's Assembly , but only because President Mubarak , in a goodwill gesture , appointed five of their members .
He also appointed five other legislators from minority groups , increasing total membership in the assembly to 458 .
Opposition politicians also are clamoring for direct presidential elections , rather than a referendum that simply approves a candidate chosen by the legislature .
Above all , opposition politicians simply doubt that the bureauracy will allow a fair vote even if President Mubarak says he wants one .
They say government functionaries in towns and villages consider it their duty to protect the president and his officials , so they pressure citizens to vote for the ruling party .
And opposition leaders charge that the Interior Ministry , which oversees elections , regularly inflates the vote for the ruling party .
There is n't much chance Mr. Mubarak can really lose from his election gambit .
His party so dominates the scene that it surely will attract far more support than any other , regardless of how fair the vote counting is .
But Mr. Mubarak 's rhetoric about democracy will lose credibility if the vote appears unfair .
Despite their grumbling and the long odds , opposition politicians are remaining in the campaign .
Some even are trying to improve their chances by combining forces .
The small Labor and Liberal parties have allied with the Moslem Brotherhood , an Islamic political organization that is legally barred from forming a party of its own .
Formation of this alliance has meant that the demands of Islamic fundamentalists , particularly their insistence that Egypt adopt a strict Islamic legal code , have become part of the campaign .
Movies from Goldcrest Films & Television Ltd. , the biggest name in Britain 's movie business , could win a lot of Oscars this month .
But who will win Goldcrest ?
Goldcrest , a production company formed 10 years ago by Pearson PLC , has produced both remarkable hits and spectacular flops .
Pearson has seen enough of both .
`` We now feel the film industry is n't for us , '' says Alan Whitaker , a director of Pearson , the diversified British conglomerate that , among other things , publishes Penguin books and the Financial Times .
Pearson , which owns 41 % of Goldcrest , and three institutional investors holding another 18 % have agreed to sell most of Goldcrest to Earle I. Mack , a New York real estate developer who has invested in movies .
But a flurry of interest from British companies dangling the prospect of higher offers than Mr. Mack 's is complicating the effort to win approval of other shareholders .
To the surprise of its board , Goldcrest `` is like the girl at the dance who once the first guy asks her suddenly becomes very attractive , '' says Jake Eberts , who started the company for Pearson , left in 1983 and returned to rescue it in 1985 .
`` We 're being approached all the time by people throwing money at us and offering salvation and hope . ''
Despite two hugely expensive box-office disasters in recent years -- `` Revolution '' and `` Absolute Beginners '' -- Goldcrest is attracting interest because of its reputation and library of past hits like `` Gandhi '' and `` Chariots of Fire . ''
After the equivalent of about $ 48.2 million of write-offs in the past two years , the company has refocused on its original goal of making quality movies with British talent .
This year , `` The Mission '' and `` A Room with a View '' together received 15 Academy Award nominations , including Best Picture and Best Director nominations for each film .
Goldcrest 's board has promised to make its `` best efforts '' to conclude the deal with Mr. Mack , who has offered to buy 85 % of Goldcrest for about $ 9.1 million .
But the agreement must be approved by holders of 75 % of the company at a meeting yet to be scheduled , and that seems far from assured .
A bid already has been made by Masterman Productions , an expansion-minded production company owned by Brent Walker Group PLC , a leisure company known for operating dog tracks , and Ensign Trust PLC , an institutional investor .
Masterman claims control of 13 % of Goldcrest and is `` reasonably convinced '' that holders of another 13 % would like Goldcrest to consider other bids , says Philip Axford , a corporate-finance partner at James Capel & Co. , Masterman 's financial adviser .
Masterman wants to buy Goldcrest and inject new working capital in a transaction it values at about $ 18.3 million .
Also interested is Hemdale Holdings Ltd. , a British-owned production company that finances mostly U.S. movies , including `` Platoon '' -- the surprise hit that also is up for the Best Picture Oscar .
Pearson 's Mr. Whitaker says two of Britain 's largest entertainment companies also have expressed interest : Granada Group PLC , which operates one of the major regional broadcasting franchises , and Virgin Group PLC , a record and music-publishing company that co-financed `` Absolute Beginners '' with Goldcrest .
Mr. Eberts , a Canadian citizen and former Oppenheimer & Co. investment banker , first approached Pearson in 1974 about backing a film of `` Watership Down , '' a novel published by Pearson 's Penguin unit .
Goldcrest was officially formed three years later and reached its zenith with the Oscar-winning `` Chariots of Fire '' in 1982 and `` Gandhi '' in 1983 .
In 1984 , the last year for which Goldcrest disclosed results , net income was about $ 2.5 million on sales of around $ 22.5 million .
The U.S. , Mr. Eberts notes , represents 75 % of the market for Goldcrest 's movies .
Goldcrest decided to become a force in TV programs and even satellites .
It raised more money from British institutions and took out its first major bank loans .
In a seeming rush to spend it all , it budgeted approximately $ 70.6 million for `` Absolute Beginners , '' `` Revolution '' and `` The Mission . ''
The films ran far over budget and behind schedule .
`` The Mission , '' the last of the three to be released , is likely to lose money even if it wins Oscars .
James E. Olson , chairman of American Telephone & Telegraph Co. , told analysts here that the company 's cash flow for the first two months of 1987 was above budget and that he is `` very pleased '' with cost-cutting efforts by line managers .
Mr. Olson would n't comment on whether the company 's profit for the first two months was ahead of budget .
Since becoming chairman last September , Mr. Olson has made improving profit at the giant telecommunications concern a top priority ; he said he wants the company 's return-on-equity to reach at least 20 % , nearly double what it was in 1985 .
Last year , AT&T took a $ 3.2 billion write-off to account for job cuts , facility consolidations and inventory write-downs , resulting in 1986 earnings of only $ 139 million , or five cents a share , on revenue of $ 34.1 billion .
Because of such write-offs , AT&T 's return on equity was only 0.3 % .
The job cuts and other moves will save AT&T $ 1 billion this year and $ 1.4 billion next year , Mr. Olson said , but the New York-based company has warned analysts that those savings will n't necessarily translate into earnings increases .
Mr. Olson also said he `` could n't believe it 's going to take '' as long as two years for the Federal Communications Commission to remove its cap on profit from AT&T 's long-distance business .
That cap , which allows the company to earn 12.2 % on its more than $ 9 billion of interstate long-distance equipment , is one factor depressing AT&T 's earnings .
Competitors have recently supported the company 's efforts to get regulation removed .
`` Frankly , it will be better for everyone , including our competitors , '' if AT&T is de-regulated , Mr. Olson said .
The executive also said the company 's `` data networking '' strategy does n't necessarily encompass a specific set of products and services , but is rather an approach to selling products and services to customers .
For example , he said , AT&T is developing a world-wide computer and phone network for Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. that can identify when and where phone lines are down .
Similarly , AT&T is testing with American Express Co. a credit card collection system that automatically dials customers , shows that the call has been answered , then transfers the call with a screen of account information to an agent .
Mr. Olson also said that Vittorio Cassoni , the AT&T senior vice president in charge of computer and local area network products that are part of this data networking concept , plans to make his division , Data Systems , profitable within the next two years .
`` I think that 's a very good target , '' Mr. Olson said , adding the profitability from the data networking strategy `` is in our five-year business plan . ''
Mr. Olson also acknowledged that to execute the company 's data networking ideas , `` we do need to spend more time and money training our sales force '' on how to analyze customer 's data processing needs .
`` We have n't been as good as we could have '' in training salespeople on data processing products , he said .
Analysts have citied the lack of a well-trained computer sales force as one reason for AT&T 's troubles in that business .
Maryland officials said they plan to take possession of $ 2 million in bearer bonds allegedly owned by Jeffrey A. Levitt , former president of Old Court Savings & Loan Association , and his family in violation of a settlement agreement reached last month .
The state on Thursday obtained an order from a state circuit court judge here barring the Levitts from transferring the bonds .
In addition , the judge ordered the the Levitts to explain no later than next Friday where the bonds are and to turn them over .
Mr. Levitt is serving a 30-year sentence for embezzling funds from Old Court , a privately insured thrift which collapsed in 1985 .
However , Paul M. Sandler , an attorney representing Mr. Levitt , said : `` My client has assured me that he does n't have possession , custody or control of the bonds . ''
The lawyer said he consented to the state 's injunction because `` my client can n't transfer what he does not have . ''
He added that Mr. Levitt will report to the judge , as ordered .
Under the terms of the February agreement , the Levitts were supposed to have turned over all but $ 360,000 of their assets .
However , a private investigator hired by the state allegedly uncovered that between August 1984 and August 1985 , the Levitts received deliveries of about 390 bonds , which were n't accounted for .
Peter Gunst , an attorney representing the state , said stops have been put on the bonds .
He added that numerous banks had advised the state that the coupons had n't been cashed for the last 18 months .
`` This is what led us to believe that this is a secret cash hoard , '' said Mr. Gunst .
After seeming to contradict Vice President George Bush last week , President Reagan issued a clarification , acknowledging that Mr. Bush expressed reservations about the Iran policy as it was unfolding .
The issue is important for Mr. Bush , who as the leading contender for the GOP presidential nomination is walking a political tightrope , trying to distance himself from the Iran scandal while remaining a team player with Mr. Reagan .
On a campaign trip to Michigan , Mr. Bush made headlines Feb. 12 when he said he `` expressed certain reservations '' to `` key players '' in the administration as the Iran policy developed .
Mr. Reagan appeared to undercut that at his news conference Thursday night .
When asked if Mr. Bush had objected to the policy as Secretary of State George Shultz and Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger had , Mr. Reagan said , `` no . ''
Marlin Fitzwater , who was Mr. Bush 's press secretary until recently becoming Mr. Reagan 's chief spokesman , later asked the president about the apparent discrepancy .
Mr. Fitzwater told reporters Friday that Messrs .
Reagan and Bush discussed the issue at their regular daily meeting that morning .
`` The president told me simply that the vice president did express reservations to him , but always supported the policy and the decisions , '' Mr. Fitzwater said .
The Central Statistical Office , in an upward revision of a preliminary report , said Britain 's economy grew 0.3 % in 1986 's fourth quarter from the prior three months .
In February , the office had reported no fourth-quarter growth .
The quarterly growth was measured by using output-based gross domestic product , considered the most reliable indicator of short-term movements in the economy .
The government also announced that the average estimate of British GDP showed a 2.6 % increase for all of 1986 , slower than 1985 's 3.4 % expansion .
The estimate is an average of the output-based , income-based and expenditure-based measures of GDP , and is considered the most accurate gauge of the United Kingdom 's long-term economic movements .
The Federal Communications Commission turned down a request by Fairness in Media to reconsider an earlier decision that control of CBS Inc. was n't improperly transferred to Loews Corp. , or its chairman , Laurence Tisch .
The agency said that Fairness in Media , a conservative advocacy group , had n't presented any evidence of specific exercises of control by Mr. Tisch , and had n't demonstrated that CBS 's board had lost its independence .
Mr. Tisch is also chief executive officer of CBS. Loews owns a 24.9 % stake in the New York-based broadcasting company .
Differences over the status of West Berlin have held up an agreement between the Common Market and the Soviet-led Comecon trading bloc aimed at ending 30 years of mutual non-recognition .
Three days of talks by senior officials ended Friday without an accord on a draft declaration that would establish formal relations between the two blocs and a framework for future cooperation on trade and other matters .
A European Community statement said that `` some progress was made toward clarifying positions and bringing them closer together . ''
Both sides agreed on another meeting , but no date was set .
The EC insists that the accord refer to West Berlin as an integral part of the community .
So far this has been rejected by Comecon , formally the Council for Mutual Economic Assistance , which does n't recognize West Berlin as part of West Germany .
Comecon has bowed to the EC 's demand that recognition of the Eastern-bloc group will n't hinder the community 's trade relations with individual Comecon countries .
The community , which had a $ 5 billion trade deficit with Comecon nations last year , maintains that the trading bloc has no legal authority to negotiate on behalf of its 10 members , as the 12-nation EC does under the Treaty of Rome .
EC negotiations on trade accords with Romania , Czechoslovakia and Hungary are at an advanced stage .
Neither side has recognized the other 's existence since the EC was created in 1957 .
Discussions on formal recognition were broken off in 1981 following the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan .
Talks resumed in September , and in January the EC held its first formal talks with the Soviet Union on establishing diplomatic ties .
C.O.M.B. Co. agreed to buy the half of Cable Value Network that it does n't already own and to pay for the stake with warrants that can be converted into common stock .
Terms of the agreement in principle call for the 17 cable-television operators who hold the other half of Cable Value Network to receive about eight million warrants .
Each warrant would be convertible into one C.O.M.B. share at an exercise price of $ 18.125 a share .
C.O.M.B. currently has about 18.1 million shares outstanding .
The value of the purchase could n't yet be ascertained .
The cost to C.O.M.B. , a direct-mail merchandiser , will depend on how much its share price is above that figure when the warrants are exercised ; they expire in five years .
In national over-the-counter trading Friday , C.O.M.B. stock closed at $ 20.25 a share , unchanged .
C.O.M.B. 's purchase would give it full control of the fast-growing home-shopping television network and a long-term commitment from the cable operators that they would carry the network .
C.O.M.B. 's board also voted to change C.O.M.B. 's name to CVN after the purchase .
Among the group of cable-television operators selling the stake are Tele-Communications Inc. of Denver , the nation 's largest cable operator ; Viacom International Inc. of New York ; and Warner Communications Inc. of New York .
`` There are a lot of positive benefits to this , '' said Larry Gerbrandt , an analyst with Paul Kagan Associates in Carmel , Calif. .
`` This is a way of bringing the 50 % private portion into a public stock .
As long as it was held privately it had no market value . ''
Such a move will help Cable Value fund its rapid growth through the capital markets and give C.O.M.B. full access to the cable operation 's cash flow , Mr. Gerbrandt said .
Also , the new setup will be more readily managed than the joint venture arrangement , said Mr. Gerbrandt .
Ted Deikel , chairman of C.O.M.B. and Cable Value , said the new arrangement will allow C.O.M.B. to apply its direct-marketing skill to the cable television business .
Cable Value 's cable-company investors hope this marketing ability results in new services to woo and keep subscribers .
The object is to clearly distinguish Cable Value from Clearwater , Fla.-based Home Shopping Network Inc. .
Home Shopping is its biggest and oldest competitor , with $ 1 billion in annual sales .
It has become even more formidable in recent months by branching beyond cable and onto the broadcast airwaves .
It appears on UHF stations in some markets , a fact that concerns cable companies as they are charging subscribers for what Home Shopping is now giving away free in some areas .
Formed about a year ago , Cable Value is expected to have annual sales of $ 350 million to $ 400 million , said Mr. Deikel .
Three men were named vice presidents of this publishing and information services concern .
They are Joseph J. Fitzsimmons , president and chief executive officer of the company 's University Microfilms Inc. unit ; Dennis J. McCarthy , president of the document management products division , and James F. Weldon , president of the company 's Philipsburg division .
Philips Medical Systems Inc. said it is funding a major medical-imaging research project that will involve seven U.S. medical centers .
The cost of the project , described as in the `` multimillion-dollar '' range , was n't disclosed .
The project , which is aimed at producing a new standard of three-dimensional medical-imaging systems , will last two years and be expanded to 15 clinical sites by this summer , the company said .
Philips Medical is a unit of North American Philips Corp. , which in turn is a subsidiary of N.V. Philips , of the Netherlands , a world-wide electrical-electronics giant .
Twist the television dial or pick up one of the blizzard of glossy business magazines and there 's a corporate chieftain staring back .
Sometimes it seems top executives get as much air time and ink these days as rock stars .
But will that fame endure ?
Which leaders of corporate America will live in memory like the Beatles or Elvis ?
Which will vanish like Moby Grape or Marianne Faithfull ?
Business history is studded with figures of enduring fame .
Henry Ford turned the automobile into an empire .
John D. Rockefeller created the first oil trusts .
Alfred Sloan shaped the idea of a modern corporation .
Andrew Carnegie made his fortune in steel and devoted his life to philanthropy .
Villains are n't in short supply , either -- railway magnate Jay Gould caused the `` Black Friday '' panic with his speculation in gold .
But trying to identify the Henry Fords , Alfred Sloans or Jay Goulds of the 1980s is n't easy .
In search of answers , we made an unscientific and impressionistic survey , asking management professors , business historians , financial journalists and management consultants which chief executives will be remembered .
What chief executives do they think MBAs of the class of 2037 will study ?
Who will future managers admire and emulate ?
Or excoriate ?
What emerges is a list of men who , in the eyes of these observers , have had an impact beyond their own corporations and industries .
The list is short .
While these observers find many chief executives praiseworthy , they predict few will be remembered .
Here then are the contemporary executives business observers believe will still be talked about after the 21st century rolls around .
Walter Wriston is the only consistent nominee .
`` He belongs on anybody 's list , '' says Thomas Horton , president of the American Management Association , a nonprofit group .
A champion of deregulation , Mr. Wriston will be remembered for his role in moving the staid banking industry into more complex financial services , those surveyed predict .
At Citicorp , where Mr. Wriston was chairman through August 1984 , he moved the bank holding company from concentrating on corporate lending into consumer banking .
The choice of Mr. Wriston reflects observers ' feelings that to be remembered , one has to change more than just a company .
`` He did more to change the banking system than anyone else , '' says Mr. Horton .
Mr. Wriston also is first choice because of his role as business statesman .
`` He 's extraordinarily literate , persuasive and forceful , '' says John Jeuck , professor of business history at the University of Chicago 's business school .
`` Clearly he 's one of the handful of industrial statesmen of this generation . ''
Chrysler Corp. Chairman Lee Iacocca is often mentioned too , but for mixed reasons .
Some think he will be remembered for his role in getting government loan guarantees to help bail out Chrysler .
`` He not only turned around a company headed out of existence , but tended to take a stronger position on the appropriate role for government in helping out industry , '' says David Lewin , professor at Columbia University 's business school .
Others think Mr. Iacocca will be remembered for his personality and his role in popularizing business .
`` He turned the faceless CEO into a cult figure , '' says management consultant Thomas J. Peters , co-author of the book `` In Search of Excellence . ''
But Mr. Iacocca may be remembered less than the social and political forces that surrounded him , many say .
`` The real book on Iacocca is n't written yet , '' says Paul Tiffany , a business historian at the University of Pennsylvania 's Wharton School .
`` What saved Chrysler was a thing called quotas . ''
Edward Bowman , professor of management at Wharton , says , `` Iacocca could be in some professor 's textbook 50 years from now as an example of government-business involvement .
Maybe as a footnote . ''
To many , this is the era of the entrepreneur .
They believe that the people who will be remembered are those who , like Henry Ford , Montgomery Ward or Harvey Firestone , built companies from scratch .
Frederick Smith at Federal Express Corp. is a popular choice .
`` He represents the epitome of entrepreneurship , '' says Jim Farley , senior chairman of the consulting firm Booz , Allen & Hamilton Inc. `` History will remember Federal Express and that a guy had an idea and -LRB- made it work -RRB- against imposing odds .
He created a new form of distribution . ''
The importance of a new industry will underscore the importance of the indvidual , says James Brian Quinn , a professor of management at the Amos Tuck School at Dartmouth College .
`` When you stand in the year 2000 , and look back on three decades , the technology that will stand out . . . will be biotechnology . ''
`` Bob Swanson is the single most prominent name as a CEO in that business , '' Mr. Quinn says .
Robert Swanson , Genentech Inc. 's founder and chief executive , turned Genentech into a major drug maker , with such products as genetically engineered insulin and the experimental drug Interferon .
Computers changed the world , too , but many feel that even the best known computer entrepreneurs , such as Steven P. Jobs , former chairman of Apple Computer Inc. , will be forgotten .
`` Jobs will n't be remembered , '' says Edward Bowman of Wharton .
`` He 's a flash in the pan . ''
Others think Mr. Jobs will be remembered as a symbol of a new executive type .
`` Steve Jobs will n't be forgotten , '' says Harold J. Leavitt , professor of organizational behavior at Stanford University and author of `` Corporate Pathfinders . ''
`` He 's the children 's crusader , a young man with contemporary values and young attitudes .
He 's a kind of a cult leader . ''
Some say the real guiding lights are n't known yet .
`` We are waiting for the second Sloan , but he will n't appear in an industrial company , '' maintains J.P. Donlon , editor of Chief Executive magazine .
`` He will appear in a service industry . ''
Many contend that the 1980s will be known for mergers and acquisitions , and corporate raiders such as Saul Steinberg , Carl Icahn and T. Boone Pickens will be remembered .
`` These people are the ones who will be recalled 40 or 50 years from now as the robber barons of old , '' says Mr. Tiffany , the business historian .
Mr. Jeuck of the University of Chicago compares the rash of mergers and acquisitions of the 1980s with the turmoil of late 19th century American business -- in reverse .
`` At the end of the 19th century there was a whole epidemic of trust-building and pyramiding of trusts and holding companies , and the whole Rockefeller-Jay Gould era of consolidation of American industry , '' he says .
`` This is in a different direction .
It 's a disintegration process . ''
In business as elsewhere , there 's more than one way to acquire a lasting reputation .
`` I picked DeLorean because he was an entrepreneur with a lot of flair , '' says Stanford 's Mr. Leavitt .
He notes that John Z. DeLorean 's bid for enduring fame got some unwanted boosts : `` Being arrested will help .
Anything that gets -LRB- people -RRB- into the media will help . ''
Mr. DeLorean , whose automobile company went into receivership in 1982 , was acquitted of cocaine smuggling charges and later acquitted of charges that he diverted company funds for his own use .
Many agree that a brush with the law can win a place in history .
So for Wharton 's Mr. Bowman , a candidate for lasting fame is Ivan Boesky .
He believes Mr. Boesky 's agreement to pay $ 100 million in settlement of insider trading charges will survive in memory after the less-sullied reputations of others have faded .
Theodore Levitt , editor of the Harvard Business Review , says , `` The things that are remembered are things of rascality and notoriety because they become metaphors and symbols , '' and he predicts that our age one day will be called `` the Boesky era . ''
Our survey specified chief executives of American corporations .
But some experts said they would n't play unless we changed the rules .
To them , the business leaders Americans are most likely to remember are Japanese .
`` What do you do when they are producing in the U.S. ? '' asks David Lewin , professor of business at Columbia 's business school .
He nominates Akio Morita , chairman and chief executive at Sony Corp. , which has five manufacturing plants in the U.S. .
In a new , multinational environment , says Mr. Lewin , top business leaders are top business leaders wherever you find them .
`` These are pace-setting companies .
We are learning lessons from those abroad . ''
Mr. Quinn at Amos Tuck says , `` The guy who deserves world mention and will clearly be recognized by his country and by the world is Konosuke Matsushita , who founded Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. . ''
He adds : `` When you hear Japanese mangement style referred to , very often the model is Matsushita . ''
`` I 'll be damned if I can come up with anybody , '' says John Gallagher , senior lecturer in business policy at the University of Chicago 's business school .
It 's not that he did n't try : Mr. Gallagher questioned two classes of students , totaling 110 people , and circulated the question informally at `` three or four '' meetings of boards he sits on .
`` Everyone says ' Duh . . . ' '' he reports .
The key , he says , is the anonymity of corporate work .
The people who are remembered are founders , the people who have their names on the door .
Today corporations are bureaucratic , he says .
Even entrepreneurs are surrounded by a crowd of venture capitalists , investment bankers and regulators .
`` Since Thomas Watson Jr. , IBM has been run by a sea of faceless people , '' he says .
`` I could n't give you the name of the current president of Xerox or IBM if my life depended on it . -LRB- Steven -RRB- Jobs . . . -LRB- is -RRB- hardly known now , much less 50 years from now .
Will Roger Smith be famous 50 years from now ?
Hell , no . ''
Management expert Peter Drucker agrees : `` Chief executives . . . are rarely remembered and rarely worth remembering .
They are servants . ''
Ms. Bennett reports on management from The Wall Street Journal 's New York bureau .
Blockbuster Entertainment Corp. said it agreed to sell its majority stake in Amtech Corp. to Blockbuster 's chairman , David P. Cook , and president , Kenneth W. Anderson .
Blockbuster also reported its net loss widened to $ 2.9 million for 1986 .
In 1985 , the loss was $ 326,000 , which included profit from discontinued operations of $ 625,000 .
Revenue soared to $ 8.1 million from $ 119,000 last year .
Blockbuster , which operates and licenses video rental stores , said that $ 954,000 of its 1986 deficit was attributable to its Amtech investment .
Amtech is developing an electronic identification security system , which Blockbuster says is n't compatible with its video rental business .
Blockbuster said Amtech also would require substantial additional funding to develop and market its product and is expected to continue incurring operating losses for the foreseeable future .
Messrs .
Cook and Anderson plan to form a new company , Amtech Holdings Inc. , with Mr. Anderson , 55 years old , as president .
Mr. Anderson resigned as president and as a director of Blockbuster , reducing its board to five .
He has agreed , however , to continue as a consultant to Blockbuster , the company said .
Mr. Cook , 31 years old , will assume the additional post of president .
The company declined to disclose terms of the sale of the Amtech interest , but said it would not result in a gain or a loss .
Blockbuster shares fell $ 1.25 , to $ 20.50 , in national over-the-counter trading yesterday .
INERTIA DYNAMICS CORP. declared a 3-for-2 stock split , payable May 1 to stock of record April 3 .
There are 3.4 million common shares outstanding .
The Phoenix , Ariz.-based maker of grass and weed trimmers previously declared a 3-for-2 split in November 1986 .
Inertia Dynamics shares closed yesterday at a 52-week high of $ 15.75 , up $ 1.25 , in national over-the-counter trading .
It happened in prime time last night , a national TV broadcast pitting two of the greatest powers in American life in what had been pre-billed as virtually a death struggle .
The White House press corps vs .
Ronald Reagan ?
Of course not .
We 're talking about something really important -- Syracuse vs .
Florida in the NCAA Eastern basketball regional .
We sensed the relative importance of these two titanic cultural events on reading yesterday that six of CBS 's seven Florida affiliates decided to can the president 's 8 p.m. news conference and instead broadcast the Gators ' basketball game .
We suspect the president probably was n't upset with Florida last night .
The state had its shot at Mr. Reagan in 1984 , pouring in nearly 65 % of its votes for him .
Last night they had a choice : Watch air ball in Washington or basketball in the NCAA .
An easy bucket .
Little more than a year ago , the people of the Philippines showed that faith could move dictators as well as mountains in the near bloodless ousting of Ferdinand Marcos .
That was in response to a call from Jaime Cardinal Sin , archbishop of Manila , to go into the streets to protect the soldiers in rebellion .
Today , with democracy restored and important elections due , the cardinal has told nuns and priests to go back to their churches .
The cardinal 's call came on the heels of the capture of one priest with New People 's Army rebels in Mindanao and the filing of weapons charges against another on Panay Island .
These in turn followed a statement earlier that week by the respected head of the Filipino armed forces , Gen. Fidel Ramos , that the church had been infiltrated by communists .
To those who remember the cardinal 's dramatic call for action during the revolution , his concern about a politicized religious community might seem an about-face .
In fact his is an eminently orthodox position .
Against liberation theology , which sanctions an activist clerical role in state affairs , the cardinal 's emphasis is on the pastoral , involving the church directly only when the situation has gone beyond legitimate parameters or no other option exists .
But with Marcos gone and Filipinos free to determine their future , Cardinal Sin sees no reason for his clerics to usurp the layman 's role in sorting out the particulars .
Thus the cardinal and his bishops have issued new guidelines to rule out the extremes and prevent abuses .
Membership in groups advocating `` class struggle or violence as a means to social change '' is unequivocably forbidden , and priests are banned from running for or holding civil power without special permission .
If they are to minister to people of all persuasions , the church must be -- and be seen to be -- above politics .
The argument therefore is not against a politically concerned church but a politicized church .
The difference between the two is best illustrated by two other Catholic nations .
In Nicaragua , priests are part and parcel of an anti-democratic ruling junta .
In Poland , by contrast , the clergy prefers to spell out principles and exert influence through lay leaders .
It 's no coincidence that one produces a Miguel d' Escoto and the other a Lech Walesa .
We 're not arguing that priests and nuns should be deprived of their civil rights .
Nor for that matter does Cardinal Sin , whose guidelines reaffirm the clergy 's right to vote for whomever they want .
We are concerned , however , that too often in North and South America and in Europe clerics have used their automatic status as religious leaders to push highly ideological , wholly secular agendas .
There may still be a spiritual mission in there somewhere , but one would be hard put to identify it .
What is especially noteworthy about Cardinal Sin 's actions in the Philippines now is the extent to which they reflect a subtle clerical intelligence , sensitive to balancing both the public and spiritual needs of his followers .
Eurodollar bond prices closed slightly higher , erasing earlier losses , as floating-rate notes rose for the third consecutive day .
Fixed-rated dollar issues were unchanged to 1/8 point higher , mainly in response to a slight early rise in some U.S. Treasury bond prices and bargain-hunting .
Turnover remained thin .
`` The markets have been very quiet , and they 're probably going to remain that way until Treasurys get a little more volatile , '' said a trader for one major U.S. investment bank .
Floating-rate notes posted gains for the third day in a row .
Some U.S. bank issues were half a point higher , while sovereign issues were up marginally .
But volume remained thin , according to specialists .
There were some retail orders , but most trading involved professionals .
The only major new dollar-denominated issue appeared to have found strong demand .
Nomura International Finance PLC launched $ 150 million of 7 1/4 % , five-year Eurobonds via Nomura International Ltd. .
The bonds are guaranteed by the parent company , Nomura Securities Co. , and carry a triple-A rating by Standard & Poor 's Corp. .
A federal judge appointed Eugene Anderson , a former assistant U.S. attorney in Manhattan , as trustee for the city 's primary concrete workers union .
Mr. Anderson , a partner at Anderson , Russell , Kill & Olick in New York , will serve from April 6 , 1987 to late 1990 .
As previously reported , the union -- the District Council of Cement and Concrete Workers , Laborers International Union of North America , and the district 's Local 6A -- agreed to the unusual trusteeship to settle civil racketeering charges alleging organized-crime connections .
Allegheny International Inc. said its banks agreed to extend their waiver of certain net-worth covenants to April 29 from March 18 .
Allegheny , which had indicated it was seeking the agreement , said it is negotiating with banks to extend the waiver beyond April 29 and believes the banks will grant the extension .
Net worth is assets minus liabilities .
The consumer and high-technology industrial products concern agreed last week to go private in a leveraged buyout arranged by a unit of First Boston Corp. .
The transaction is valued at about $ 500 million .
AmeriTrust Corp. , facing the prospect of a takeover , may be moving to erect some defenses .
The Cleveland-based regional bank holding company , Ohio 's third-largest , said it plans to split its stock 2-for-1 , raise its dividend and more than double the number of authorized but unissued shares .
In addition , AmeriTrust said it intends to stagger the terms of its directors .
Analysts said the steps -- though not unusual for a regional banking concern - indicate that AmeriTrust is readying defenses against an investor group that has bought a 9.6 % stake in it .
Jerry V. Jarrett , chairman and chief executive officer , said he will ask directors to boost to 50 cents a share from 44 cents , on a pre-split basis , the quarterly payout on common stock .
Analysts said the proposed increase is larger than they expected .
AmeriTrust said it will propose to shareholders at its annual meeting May 14 the stock split and staggered terms for its 25-member board .
The split would double the number of shares outstanding to 41.8 million .
In addition , the banking concern said it will ask holders to approve an increase in the number of authorized but unissued shares to 100 million -- more than double the number of shares outstanding after allowing for the split .
As previously reported , a group led by Alfred Lerner , a banking and real estate executive with holdings in Baltimore and Cleveland , disclosed this week that it had acquired a 9.6 % stake in AmeriTrust .
Mr. Lerner , who would n't say whether the group plans a takeover bid , has asked the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland for permission to buy as much as 24.9 % of AmeriTrust stock .
An Ameritrust spokesman said the additional authorized shares may be used for a `` variety of reasons '' not connected to defending the company from a takeover , including acquisitions .
The banking concern added that it still has no indication that Mr. Lerner 's interest is hostile .
Frank Barkocy , a Merrill Lynch Capital Markets analyst , said AmeriTrust is likely to resist a takeover .
`` They feel they are developing critical mass and can choose their own partner , '' he said .
He added that , given uncertainty over the Lerner group 's motives , AmeriTrust appears to be `` getting prepared for contingencies . ''
Jeffrey L. Cohn , a Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. analyst , termed AmeriTrust 's actions `` pretty mild '' defensive measures that will n't hamper any potential acquirer .
`` Even with a staggered board , AmeriTrust is amazingly free of shark repellent , '' he said .
AmeriTrust , one of the nation 's most strongly capitalized banks , had $ 11.07 billion in assets at the end of 1986 .
The following issues were filed recently with the Securities and Exchange Commission :
AMERICAN CAN CO. , shelf filing of $ 500 million of debt securities .
FEDERAL PAPER BOARD CO. , $ 140 million of cumulative convertible preferred stock , via First Boston Corp. .
J&J SNACK FOODS CORP. , $ 25 million of convertible debentures , via Advest Inc. .
LOMAS MORTGAGE CORP. , an offering of four million common shares , via Merrill Lynch Capital Markets .
ABM GOLD CORP. , initial public offering of six million common shares , via PaineWebber Inc. .
LTV Corp. agreed to revise its cash management procedures , satisfying its unsecured creditors and allowing it to secure $ 100 million of new bank financing .
The complex bank financing agreement , which is expected to be filed today in bankruptcy court in New York , had drawn objections from LTV 's unsecured creditors and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. , the federal agency that insures corporate pensions , because it tinkered with some aspects of LTV 's cash management procedures while leaving others alone .
The big steel , aerospace and energy concern has been operating since last July with protection from creditors ' lawsuits , under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code , while it works out a plan to pay debt .
Since the financing package was first filed with the court last December , bankers , creditors and LTV officials have spent hundreds of hours at the bargaining table reworking the cash management procedures .
As part of the initial agreement between LTV and the 22-member bank group , the company had agreed to restrict the profits it would funnel from its successful aerospace and defense unit to its troubled steel and energy products units .
In the first year , LTV could transfer $ 77 million from the aerospace and defense unit to the parent company , plus 50 % of the unit 's profits in future years .
That aspect of the accord was n't changed , the banks and creditors said .
Most of the changes involved reporting mechanisms , whereby LTV has agreed to provide detailed information to its creditors about many of its cash transfers , they said .
LTV declined to comment until the agreement is filed with the bankruptcy court .
With the revisions , a creditors ' spokesman said , `` If any movement is made that we feel impairs the ability of the unsecured creditors to protect their interests , we 'll have enough notice to go into court . ''
The pension agency , which has taken over LTV 's four big steel pension funds , also had been concerned that the banks ' agreement to repackage about $ 435 million of secured debt and letters of credit constituted a reorganization plan of sorts .
Attorneys representing LTV 's banks said language in the agreement was changed and clarified to make it clear that the debts were still considered to be so-called pre-petition claims , which can n't be paid outside of a formal reorganization plan .
LTV 's Chapter 11 filing cited huge interest and pension costs , and continuing problems at its beleaguered steel unit , the nation 's second-largest .
The company plans to reorganize around its aerospace and defense unit .
LTV had urged quick approval of the agreement in January , saying it needed the new $ 100 million in financing for letters of credit to support foreign sales of military and drilling equipment .
CareerCom Corp. said it agreed to acquire 35 vocational schools from Jostens Inc. for $ 20 million in cash and 1.7 million newly issued shares .
Under terms of the agreement , Jostens also has options to purchase approximately 225,000 shares of CareerCom 's common stock and agreed not to increase its stake in CareerCom 's shares above 20 % for six years , CareerCom said .
Both companies are operators of vocational training schools .
The transaction , which is expected to be completed by April 30 , is subject to a final banking commitment , Federal Trade Commission clearance and formal board approval .
A board meeting is scheduled for March 23 , CareerCom said .
With President Reagan now largely recovered from his prostate surgery , his wife Nancy took to the road , partly to heal her own wounds .
Bruised by negative publicity surrounding her not-so-behind-the-scenes efforts to oust then White House Chief of Staff Donald Regan last month , the first lady yesterday returned to a less controversial role : addressing the Parents ' Resource Institute for Drug Education 's annual conference in Atlanta , part of stepped-up travel plans for the next few months .
`` She 's going to jump on the drug bandwagon , get out on the road and stop minding the store , '' says one Republican official knowledgeable about the first lady 's strategy to counter recent unfavorable reviews .
`` It 's partly because her husband is better .
But it 's also a lot of damage control . ''
Not so , says Elaine Crispen , Mrs. Reagan 's spokeswoman .
`` It 's not new -- anything suggesting we 're changing her image is just malarky . ''
She notes that Mrs. Reagan 's drug efforts are longstanding .
And she asserts that the first lady 's image does n't need any burnishing .
But a new Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll conducted from Sunday through Tuesday suggests the first lady plainly has been hurt by the public 's growing perception that she has too much influence over her husband .
Of those polled , an unusually high 39 % thought the president lets himself be influenced too much by his wife , 53 % did n't think so and 8 % were n't sure .
Mrs. Reagan still enjoys a high 61 % overall approval rating , but that has fallen 13 points since last April and her disapproval rating has more than tripled to 26 % .
While only 8 % of those polled thought Mrs. Reagan should wield `` a great deal of influence , '' 38 % thought that she currently does , a jump of 16 points since last April .
But if many think she 's too influential , still only a small minority , 6 % , think that over the next two years she 'll be the main power in the White House .
Confidants of the first lady say that she has been frustrated and hurt by the drubbing she received in the days surrounding Mr. Regan 's Feb. 27 resignation , and she has been anxious to limit any damage .
After New York Times columnist William Safire 's March 2 column charging that her `` political interference '' was making her husband `` appear wimpish and helpless , '' Mrs. Reagan sought advice about what to do from friends inside and outside the White House , among them presidential pollster Richard Wirthlin .
Mr. Wirthlin declines to discuss any meetings he might have had with the first lady .
But sources close to the two say that it was agreed that the best tack for Mrs. Reagan to take was to return with renewed vigor to the drug issue , and to be very careful about appearing to meddle in substantive policy issues .
Whatever else she does , she must not , as one source put it , `` go pounding on -LRB- new White House Chief of Staff -RRB- Howard Baker every day . ''
In this effort to improve her image , Mrs. Reagan has had a lot of help , both from a spontaneous backlash brought on by media overkill and also from some old friends who led the way on her defense .
One of them , Director Charles Z. Wick of the U.S. Information Agency , suggests that without ever being asked to , her supporters launched a virtual public-relations campaign .
`` It was like what we call a ' propaganda alert , ' '' says Mr. Wick .
`` You counter it -LRB- the negative publicity -RRB- the same way you counter Soviet disinformation : You send out the truth to as widespread an audience as possible . ''
Thus Mr. Wick and other friends of the first lady fanned out across a dizzying array of television and radio talk shows , at the same time filling the op-ed pages and political columns of some of the most prestigious journals in the nation .
Mr. Wick did five television appearances in less than a week .
Mrs. Reagan 's former press secretary , Sheilah Tate , hit the television circuit and also co-authored an op-ed piece for the New York Times with one of the first lady 's longtime friends , Nancy Reynolds .
Mrs. Reagan was shown an advance copy and gave it her blessing .
Similarly , pundit George Will , who had one of his celebrated lunches recently with Mrs. Reagan , devoted part of his March 6 Washington Post column to her defense .
While he criticized her husband for displaying `` an essentially passive presidential function '' in the Iran-Contra affair , he mocked the first lady 's critics .
He also offered a helpful example of her reluctance to meddle , suggesting that when Howard Baker asked Mrs. Reagan her opinion of the appointment of William Webster to be director of the Central Intelligence Agency , `` she recoiled , saying she did not want to have opinions about everything . ''
In the process of championing Mrs. Reagan 's right to play a role in her husband 's affairs , her defenders have stirred an outpouring of anti-sexist sentiment , not Mrs. Reagan 's usual cause .
The first lady 's staff has wryly enjoyed the fact that even the Washington Post columnist Judy Mann , a tough critic in the past , on March 6 called President Reagan `` a lucky man '' for being married to Nancy .
And in making the case for a strong-willed wife , Mrs. Reagan 's champions may have reopened the so-called gender gap .
More women than men , 65 % vs. 57 % according to the most recent poll , approve of her .
`` There are a lot of unsung , powerful wives out there who understand , '' suggests Michele Davis , executive director of the Republican Governors Association .
And apparently , a lot of husbands who do n't .
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement : `` President Reagan lets himself be influenced too much by his wife . ''
The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll
DOME MINES LTD. said it completed the sale of seven million common shares at $ 12 -LRB- Canadian -RRB- each , for total net proceeds of about $ 79.8 million , to a group of four Toronto-based securities dealers .
Dome , a large Toronto-based gold mining concern , said about $ 44 million of the proceeds will be used to repay outstanding bank debt , and the balance will be used to improve its cash position .
Dominion Securities Inc. led the underwriting group .
The shares will be offered for re-sale to the public .
In trading yesterday on the Toronto Stock Exchange , Dome Mines closed unchanged at $ 15.50 .
General Motors Corp. will temporarily idle 3,500 hourly workers Monday when it halts production to adjust inventories on one of two assembly lines at its Lansing , Mich. , car assembly plant .
The line , which builds the compact Buick Somerset and Skylark and the Oldsmobile Calais , will be down for two weeks , the company said .
GM said the shutdown is designed to reduce bulging inventories of unsold cars .
Dealers had a 146-day supply of unsold Somersets on their lots at the end of February , according to Ward 's Automotive Reports , a trade publication .
That 's more than double the 60-day to 65-day supply considered normal .
Unsold inventories of the Calais model stood at 83 days .
Production of the Pontiac version of the cars , the Grand Am , will continue on the second line at the plant .
That car has been much more popular than its Buick and Olds counterparts , with unsold supplies Feb. 28 at only 51 days .
GM said it plans to resume output of Chevrolet Camaros and Pontiac Firebirds Monday at its Norwood , Ohio , car assembly plant after a one-week closing because of material shortages .
U.S. car makers are scheduled to build 169,403 cars this week , up 1.2 % from 167,443 cars last week .
This week 's expected output is down 4.6 % from the year-earlier production of 177,588 .
GM 's estimated production is up 4.6 % from last week 's 85,087 ; Ford Motor Co. 's total will rise 2.6 % to 43,938 ; and Chrysler Corp. 's will fall 13 % to 19,400 from last week 's 22,383 .
The Chrysler cuts were fairly evenly distributed throughout the company 's product line .
GM said it scheduled one U.S. car assembly plant and four U.S. truck assembly plants for overtime tomorrow .
Ford said it scheduled overtime tomorrow at one U.S. car and one truck assembly plant .
Chrysler said it scheduled two U.S. car assembly plants for overtime Saturday .
Honda Motors Corp. scheduled eight hours of overtime tomorrow at its Marysville , Ohio , car assembly plant .
Back when divorce was shameful , corporate America joined the rest of society in labeling men with broken marriages as failures .
For them , there was no room at the top .
Over time , divorce has seeped into every stratum of American life , and now most people assume that it no longer carries a stigma .
But in America 's executive suites , some of the stigma lingers .
A superbly qualified man probably would n't be denied a top job because of his marital status .
But a divorce will n't go unnoticed .
To his superiors , it will be a subject of concern and curiosity ; they 'll want to know how he handled it and how , if he has n't remarried , he 's handling his new status .
Though divorce is deeply personal , when it happens to a corporate executive , other people make it their business .
Among senior executives of major corporations , divorce is still far from common .
A survey by The Wall Street Journal found that the typical chief executive officer of a Fortune 500-level company is a 58-year-old man married to a woman who does n't work outside the home .
And typically , he has been married to the same woman for more than 20 years .
All 351 of the respondents in the survey were men , and only 3.4 % of them were divorced .
Of those who were married , only 18 % had been married more than once .
The marital picture for women executives is quite different .
According to a recent report by Heidrick & Struggles Inc. , an executive search firm , more than 40 % of female corporate executives are single , separated or divorced .
Among executives , a man without family is an anomaly , but a woman without family is normal .
Age helps explain the low divorce rate among senior corporate men .
Most are older than 45 and thus belong to generations that have a relatively low incidence of divorce .
But a debate simmers about why executive men seem to divorce even less than average .
Some believe that men who succeed in the business world are a breed apart , able to cope with their personal lives as maturely as they do their business problems .
`` My bias is that the person who becomes a CEO is a remarkable , unusual guy who has risen above many hazards and problems along the way , '' says Richard Diedrich , manager of the Boston office of Rohrer , Hibler & Replogle , a corporate psychology group .
`` He stands above the group in terms of general psychological health . ''
Others theorize that corporate executives may be so driven by their work that even if their home lives are wretched , they simply can n't be bothered to get a divorce .
`` Guys on the fast track go full bore on their jobs and do n't have time to get a divorce , '' says David Peasback , president of Heidrick & Struggles .
`` They 're busy , active people who can tolerate what other people might not . ''
A third group wonders whether executive men , like politicians , still feel their careers are more likely to flourish if they paint a pretty picture of their home lives .
Twenty years ago , the perfect family facade was crucial .
`` We all knew people who were n't happy but stayed married because they did n't want a divorce , '' says Harding Lawrence , former chief executive of Braniff Airlines , who divorced and remarried in the middle of his career .
The topic of divorce still seems to make many senior executives uncomfortable .
To follow up its recent survey , The Wall Street Journal telephoned more than a dozen chief executives who have been divorced .
All declined to be interviewed .
Asked why his boss did n't want to be quoted on the subject , one executive 's assistant said , `` He feels he is a symbol of this company , and he does n't want this company associated in people 's minds with divorce . ''
Although that pressure may be subtler now , some people argue that it still exists .
`` There 's definitely an unspoken pressure to keep a marriage together , '' says Patricia Cook , principal at Egon Zehnder International , an executive search firm .
`` The pressure says if you want to be CEO , you have to demonstrate that you 're not an ordinary man and not subject to the same vulnerabilities as the rest of the population .
You have to be Mr. Perfect . ''
That 's a tall order .
From the wife 's viewpoint , strains are inherent in this kind of marriage .
As a rule , the amount of time the husband spends with his wife and family is severely limited .
The husband believes he has to make big sacrifices in his personal and family life to succeed in his career , so he makes them .
Sometimes the sacrifices become excessive , and the marriage is jeopardized .
`` My husband usually arrives home exhausted and detached , '' complains the wife of a Fortune 500 chief executive who has contemplated divorce .
`` Invariably , when a crisis occurs at home , he is hundreds of miles away and preoccupied . ''
Another discontented wife says : `` We participate in activities to enhance his career .
I direct my life according to his needs . ''
When a corporation frowns on divorce , it usually has less to do with the industry or region of the country than with the man at the helm .
Mr. Diedrich remembers the president of a company looking for a successor and considering four or five logical contenders , one of whom was on the threshold of divorce .
`` The president 's attitude was , ' I 'm not sure I want to turn my company over to him , ' '' Mr. Diedrich says .
`` But really he was saying , ' This position calls for interacting socially and politically with the community , and my successor needs an able lady at his side to enable him to do what I 've done . '
The president prided himself on having worked a balance between home and work , and if he could do it , so could other people . ''
Today , however , corporate chiefs have to be careful about expressing their prejudices openly .
For one thing , in 20 states and the District of Columbia , it 's illegal to discriminate in hiring or promotions on the basis of marital status .
But recruiters trying to place a senior executive at certain companies say they know without being told that candidates must fit in .
David Smith , managing director of the New York office of Korn/Ferry International , an executive search firm , tells of a search for a bank president .
`` The client was very specific about almost everything , from religion to marital status .
It 's not so much that they were against one or the other ; it was more to fit into the community .
They told us , ' The person should have a wife , be a family man . ' ''
Even so , the vast majority of recruiters and executives say divorce will n't make or break a job candidate anymore .
Ralph Young , president of Amasco , an executive search firm based in Pittsburgh , says that when he got started in the business in 1964 , `` We had clients small and large who simply told us they did n't want a divorced man .
Their feeling was , if a man can n't run his home life , he 's not capable of running our company . ''
Today , he says , tolerance is much more widespread .
`` We always specifically ask that question -LRB- about divorced candidates -RRB- , '' he says , `` and the response is n't negative at all . ''
That 's not to say a man 's divorce is irrelevant .
`` It 's information I want to pass on to the client , '' Mr. Smith says .
`` It 's information like how tall he is .
It should n't be the deciding factor , but it should help the client know the person . ''
At companies that prefer to promote from within , a man with marriage troubles who is already considered a valued employee is likely to be shown tolerance .
Charles W. Sweet , vice president and partner of A.T. Kearney Inc. , a Chicago-based executive search concern , recalls an officer in a large company who was granted an indefinite leave to work out his marital problems .
`` Ten or 15 years ago , '' he says , `` the company would n't have done anything for him . ''
It 's unlikely that the choice for top job would ever come down to two candidates identical in every way but marital status .
But if it did , there 's little doubt which one would get it .
`` Like in football , the good big man is better than the good little man , '' says Mr. Peasback .
`` If you have two identical candidates , you 'd probably take the one who is n't divorced . ''
What 's more , not all divorces are equal .
A company considering a divorced man for a top job would also want to know the details .
`` A recent divorce raises the spectre that at night , instead of going home to his wife and hearth , he 's going to go out to discos and stay out late , and his energy will n't be devoted to the company , '' Ms. Cook says .
A messy divorce is worse .
`` If there 's some kind of scandal attached to it , or if another member of the organization has been dragged in because they 're in the same social circles , that will leave a residual distaste , '' says Harry Levinson , a psychologist and president of the Levinson Institute in Boston .
Undesirable as a recent or messy divorce can be , some companies regard men who cheat on their wives as even worse risks .
`` If a guy 's having an affair on the side and spending a lot of time figuring out how to meet the woman , he 'll be just as diverted from his work , '' Ms. Cook says .
`` Also , there 's a much greater likelihood that there 's going to be a tinge in the company that he 's immoral and unethical , and if he 's that way in his personal life , maybe he 's that way in his business life . ''
But the real pariahs in business , the men who will find no less prejudice today than 20 years ago , are those who have never been married .
`` It 's not a natural thing for people to get past a certain age and not be married , '' says Bill Billington , chairman of Billington , Fox & Ellis , executive recruitment consultants .
Ms. Cook says clients always want to know precisely why a candidate has never married .
`` If it 's a male client , the question of gay will be in their minds , '' she says .
`` And only after a face-to-face meeting can the client put that fear to rest .
Most heterosexual men have a hard time dealing with gay men , and considering the closeness of the relationship between a chairman and a CEO , it would be tough to have the right chemistry between them if one was gay and one was n't . ''
-LRB- In the recent Wall Street Journal survey of 351 top executives , 66 % said they would hesitate to promote someone who is homosexual to management-committee level . -RRB-
A few companies have overcome such apprehension and have begun recognizing the value of a man unencumbered by family .
`` One of our clients was in the process of recruiting someone for a $ 1 million-plus job , and we asked about preferences , '' says Jacques Nordeman , chairman of Nordeman Grimm Inc. , an executive search firm .
`` The client said since the person has to travel 70 % of the time , it would be ideal if the candidate were divorced or single , did n't have a family and could concentrate on the job 100 % of the time .
You would n't have heard that 10 years ago . ''
Mr. Nordeman says another recent opening for a top financial executive came down to two distinguished candidates , one married with three children and the other recently divorced .
Although the decision was n't ultimately made because of marital status , Mr. Nordeman says , the divorced man was hired .
`` The client knew that the recently divorced person could focus his energies on the new job and there would be no problem getting the family relocated , '' Mr. Nordeman says .
In hiring executives , he says , `` There could be a real question about whether a person is n't so family-oriented that it could become a hindrance . ''
Ms. Crossen is a staff reporter in The Wall Street Journal 's New York bureau .
Pier 1 Imports Inc. 's largest holder said it intends to again take majority control of the company 's voting stock .
Reached at a sales meeting in Bal Harbour , Fla. , Clark Johnson , Pier 1 's president and chief executive officer , said Intermark Inc. 's proposal is `` for the betterment of the stockholders and all of the company . ''
Intermark , which controls 43.4 % of Pier 1 's common , said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it plans to buy enough additional Pier 1 shares on the open market and in private transactions .
Intermark and a subsidiary , Pier 1 Holdings Inc. , also control about 43 % of Pier 1 's $ 0.25 preferred outstanding .
Mr. Johnson said that Intermark 's SEC filing reflects the companies ' agreement to allow Intermark to regain a majority stake it held in the Fort Worth , Texas , specialty retailer for several years until last summer when warrants that diluted Intermark 's holdings were exercised .
Pier 1 recently issued a new class of preferred in a dividend action that was designed to allow Intermark to raise its stake in the company , Mr. Johnson said .
Intermark is a La Jolla , Calif. , holding company with interests in specialty retailing , commercial printing and consumer products .
Pier 1 shares fell 50 cents , to $ 17.50 , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday .
Intermark 's shares ended the day unchanged at $ 13.875 in American Stock Exchange composite trading .
Rep. John Dingell , chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee , wants to tighten the rule that investors disclose stock holdings of 5 % or more and to lengthen the tender offer period .
The proposals will be part of legislation the Michigan Democrat plans to introduce in the wake of Wall Street 's insider-trading scandal .
Speaking at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce yesterday , Rep. Dingell said he will soon introduce separate bills addressing insider-trading problems and the general issue of mergers and acquisitions .
Similar legislation is being drafted in the Senate .
`` Clearly the amount of stock that triggers disclosure is far too high , '' Rep. Dingell said .
He did n't specify the threshold that will be in his legislative package .
Currently , an investor is required to report holdings to the Securities and Exchange Commission after acquiring 5 % or more of a company 's stock .
The powerful committee chairman also plans to include a provision to extend the tender offer period from the current 20 business days , but he did n't specify how long a period he would seek .
`` My intention is to increase the time a company has to defend itself , '' he said .
Rep. Dingell expressed concern about the `` Chinese walls '' that are supposed to separate investment banking firms ' risk-arbitrage and mergers-and-acquisitions departments .
`` One of the things we 'll look at is to see that the Chinese wall works or those on either side will go their separate ways , '' he said .
But Dingell aides said the lawmaker probably would n't consider legislation on the matter until his committee 's oversight panel completes its probe of insider-trading abuses , including apparent cracks in the `` Chinese walls '' of some investment banking firms .
Rep. Dingell reiterated his intention to shorten the period before investors must disclose to the SEC stakes of 5 % or more .
The current 10-day period often allows raiders to make sneak attacks , and it allows unfounded rumors about hostile bids to build .
SEC Chairman John Shad also has said he favors shortening the 10-day period .
On separate legislation directed at insider trading rather than acquisitions generally , Rep. Dingell said his goal is `` to require more careful and attentive supervision '' of employees at securities firms .
And he said he supported giving the SEC greater resources .
Greyhound Corp. said it signed a definitive agreement to buy General Motors Corp. 's U.S. transit bus and parts business .
The price was n't disclosed .
Greyhound , a food and consumer products company that produces about 1,000 buses a year for intercity use , said it expects the transaction to be completed in July .
The companies had announced the proposed sale of the GM bus making operations in January .
GM makes 47-seat , diesel-powered buses for mass-transit use at plants in Pontiac , Mich. , and St. Eustache , Quebec .
Greyhound said its agreement with GM includes the right to purchase the Canadian transit bus and parts business , contingent upon reaching a satisfactory labor agreement .
The Detroit-based concern will continue to produce school bus chassis .
Separately , Greyhound said it completed the previously announced $ 350 million sale of its bus lines to a group of investors led by Dallas businessman Fred G. Currey , a former president of Trailways Bus Lines Inc. .
The price consisted of $ 290 million in cash and $ 60 million in securities .
Mr. Currey , who recently negotiated a labor pact with Greyhound Lines ' principal union , plans to move the company 's headquarters to Dallas this summer .
The British pound 's rally paused , and the U.S. dollar also eased in quiet foreign exchange trading yesterday .
Trading was subdued by concern about possible central-bank intervention to prevent exchange rates for both the pound and dollar from venturing beyond the levels of recent dealings .
Anxiety about central-bank intrusion into currency markets is caused by last month 's exchange-rate stabilization agreement among the U.S. and its top five economic allies , traders said .
Most major currencies have traded in a relatively narrow band since the accord by the Group of Six , or G-6 , was announced in Paris Feb. 22 .
`` Despite everyone 's expectations that the market would challenge the G-6 's supposed ranges of tolerance , the test of their resolve is n't any closer than it was a month ago , '' said James S. Vick , vice president and senior corporate trader at Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in New York .
While overall foreign-exchange activity was light yesterday , trading in sterling , and especially between sterling and West German marks , continued to dominate the market , dealers said .
`` The market is moribund .
It 's difficult to see what 's going to shake the dollar out of the doldrums .
The only action is in sterling and sterling-Deutsche mark , '' said Peter Rogers , vice president and chief foreign exchange dealer at Banca Nazionale Dell' Agricoltura in New York .
Sterling lost ground yesterday as it encountered relatively heavy corporate selling and traders who were reluctant to buy the currency for fear of intervention by the Bank of England .
Concern about the central bank selling pounds was raised Wednesday after Britain 's chancellor of the exchequer , Nigel Lawson , reiterated his opposition to further strengthening of the pound .
`` Some people think the Bank of England is holding a sword over sterling , and that its potential is limited , '' Mr. Vick of Manufacturers Hanover said .
The pound was unaffected by the favorable news that Britain 's unemployment rate fell to 11.1 % in February from 11.3 % in January .
In late New York trading , the pound stood at $ 1.6003 , down from $ 1.6080 Wednesday .
Sterling also fell to 2.9338 marks , from 2.9513 .
The dollar slipped to 1.8333 marks , from 1.8354 , and to 151.48 Japanese yen , from 151.86 .
The dollar 's uneventful dealings were due to a lack of consensus about U.S. economic growth prospects , compared to the rest of the industrialized world , as well as to worries about central bank intervention , traders said .
`` You do n't have any major reason to go in either direction , '' said Francois Soares-Kemp , vice president and chief corporate trader at Credit Lyonnais in New York .
In early trading in Tokyo Friday , the dollar fell against the Japanese currency to 151.35 yen from 151.48 yen in New York yesterday afternoon .
On the Commodity Exchange in New York , gold for March delivery rose 20 cents an ounce to $ 405.30 in light trading .
The estimated volume was 1.8 million ounces .
Gold was quoted at $ 405.60 an ounce in early trading Friday in Hong Kong .
A top Securities and Exchange Commission official proposed brief , simultaneous trading halts in stock and stock-index markets to combat excessive price volatility .
Richard Ketchum , head of market regulation for the SEC , said such an unprecedented step would eliminate the `` potential for a cascade or snowballing effect '' in the two markets , with heavy selling in stocks and stock-index futures feeding on itself .
He proposed the idea at a Futures Industry Association convention here , where the stock-price swings often associated with index-futures trading have dominated discussions .
While a market crash is unlikely , Mr. Ketchum said , the prospect `` can n't be discarded entirely . ''
Regulators ' struggle to moderate stock-price swings takes on added urgency this afternoon , during the quarterly `` triple witching hour . ''
Traders and analysts are predicting extremely heavy volume near the close on the New York Stock Exchange , when stock-index futures , options and individual stock options all expire simultaneously .
In a related development , Chicago Mercantile Exchange officials discarded a previous plan aimed at addressing the problem .
Bowing to pressure from securities firms , Merc officials said at the conference that they have withdrawn a controversial proposal , pending with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission , to place a 12-point daily limit on price moves in the Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index futures market .
The S&P pit is the biggest index futures market by far , accounting for more than 75 % of all stock-index futures volume .
Several big securities firms that are members of the Merc objected to the idea , predicting that the price limit would become a `` self-fulfilling prophecy , '' William Brodsky , the Merc 's president , said .
Fears that prices would hit the limit could send traders scrambling to close out their positions , thereby accelerating the price moves , he said .
A `` limit move '' usually effectively halts trading by drying up bids or offers .
Critics of limits also said that once the Merc 's Standard & Poor 's 500 stock-index futures contract had reached its 12-point limit up or down from the previous day 's close , traders would simply transfer all their activity to the stock market , which trades without limits .
An SEC report on the volatility issue is set for release Monday .
The agency studied swings in stock and stock-index prices last Sept. 11 , when the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 115 points in just over an hour before rebounding , and on certain days in December and January .
Mr. Ketchum said the SEC concluded that a fundamental change in investors ' market outlook , reflected first in the declining bond market that day , was the main reason for the precipitous decline Sept. 11 and the following day .
Arbitrage trading , or simultaneous activity in stock-index futures and stocks , was `` a very substantial part but by no means a predominant part '' of the forces driving the decline , he said .
Mr. Ketchum said his suggestion for a joint trading halt , characterized by some industry executives as a trial balloon , was his idea , although he had discussed it with other senior SEC officials .
He proposed the idea , Mr. Ketchum said , as a way of `` building on -LRB- Big Board chairman -RRB- John Phelan 's suggestion of a safety net '' to keep the stock and stock-index futures markets from becoming locked into a precipitous pas de deux .
Futures-exchange executives were guarded in their response .
Although Mr. Brodsky said he was n't aware of Mr. Ketchum 's trading-halt proposal before hearing it yesterday , he said it was `` worth discussing . ''
Lewis Horowitz , president of the New York Futures Exchange , a Big Board subsidiary that trades stock-index futures and options , said he would favor a meeting among stock and futures exchanges to consider the idea .
Mr. Ketchum also suggested that futures exchanges should consider allowing securities firms to use their capital to execute large trades that could n't be accommodated by traders in the futures pits .
He drew a parallel with block trading on the Big Board , in which securities firms risk their own capital to match big trades off the trading floor .
Futures exchanges had been expected to lobby hard against further regulation at the convention on the grounds that more restrictions would hurt , rather than help futures markets .
Many futures industry officials are watching to see if additional steps taken by the Merc recently to curb abuses in the S&P 500 pit will be adopted by , or pressed upon , other futures exchanges .
The Merc last week announced reforms that , if adopted , will sharply restrict its S&P 500 brokers from the industry-wide practice of trading for their own as well as customer accounts .
First Interstate Bancorp , which last month dropped a takeover bid for BankAmerica Corp. , asked shareholders to approve measures that would facilitate future acquisitions as well as discourage a hostile takeover of itself .
Separately , the company said in a regulatory filing that it was `` premature '' to decide whether it would have to reclassify any of its $ 504 million in Brazilian debt as non-accruing , following that nation 's recent suspension of payments on its foreign debt .
First Interstate said if the loans were reclassified that it would reduce 1987 income before taxes by about $ 33.5 million .
The company had 1986 net income of $ 337.9 million , or $ 7.19 a share .
In the proxy statement for its April 24 annual meeting , First Interstate asked shareholders to approve an increase in authorized common shares to 250 million from 100 million .
The bank holding company said the increased number of shares could be used for acquisitions or other unspecified `` investment opportunities . ''
It indicated that it currently does n't have any plans for issuing newly authorized common as part of a takeover .
Other possible uses , it said , were for future financings , stock splits or dividends , and employee benefit plans .
First Interstate also said the jump in authorized shares would enable it to discourage a hostile takeover by issuing warrants or rights to purchase added shares .
But it said it was n't aware of any effort to seek control , and that it does n't currently plan to use the shares as a takeover defense .
While abandoning its unsolicited $ 3.23 billion takeover offer for San Francisco-based BankAmerica , First Interstate has indicated continued interest in expanding outside its current 12-state territory , possibly into Texas .
Several large California banks are changing their charters to give them more clout in dealing with unsolicited overtures , reflecting a recent change in California law to allow New York banks to make acquisitions in the state beginning in 1991 .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , First Interstate shares closed at $ 59.25 , up 12.5 cents .
In addition , First Interstate disclosed that Charles W. Parry , chairman of Aluminum Co. of America , and L.S. Skaggs , chairman of American Stores Co. , recently resigned as directors .
It said Mr. Skaggs would remain on the company 's Utah bank board , but did n't give a reason for Mr. Parry 's resignation .
It also said Bruce Nordstrom , co-chairman of Nordstrom Inc. , did n't seek reelection for personal reasons .
Ralph Davidson , Time Inc. 's executive committee chairman , was nominated to the board , leaving it with 14 members .
Reflecting a recent change in Delaware law , First Interstate also proposed to limit director liability for damages in cases of negligent or grossly negligent behavior .
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. downgraded Merrill Lynch & Co. 's long-term debt , citing an assessment of lagging profitability at Merrill Lynch .
About $ 6 billion of securities are affected .
The ratings concern lowered the securities firm 's senior debt , issued both in the U.S. and in Europe , and its senior guaranteed Eurodebt to single-A-one from double-A-three .
Merrill Lynch 's subordinated debt rating was lowered to single-A-two from single-A-one .
The firm 's prime-1 commercial paper rating was n't changed .
Moody 's said that while Merrill Lynch 's earnings will continue to increase , its `` profitability will lag that of its peers . ''
The agency noted that Merrill Lynch is increasing its risk by aggressively committing its capital to merchant banking activities such as bridge financing of mergers , and said that while Merrill Lynch is trying to improve its profitability by controlling costs , those attempts will be limited by accelerating competition .
Moody 's noted , however , that additions to senior management have aided Merrill Lynch 's efforts to enhance a broad range of credit , financial and operational controls .
Moody 's had placed the company 's ratings under review for downgrading last December .
A Merrill Lynch spokesman , citing a record performance in 1986 , said the company was `` disappointed '' by the downgrading .
He said the company more than doubled its earnings , to $ 454 million , and increased its equity capital 23 % to $ 2.9 billion .
He added that profitability has grown consistently over the last three years .
The president of Carrington Laboratories Inc. talks as if everything at his company is fine .
But the company 's year-end filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission discloses that Carrington 's auditors , Arthur Andersen & Co. , qualified its opinion of the company 's financial statements because of the potential adverse effects of a pending lawsuit .
In the filing , the company said that it has n't received any payments since November from Nutri-Metics International Inc. -- which is suing Carrington -- for Nutri-Metics ' purchase last year of Carrington 's direct-sales business .
Nutri-Metics filed suit against Carrington in January , claiming breach of contract and other charges , and asking for upward of $ 4 million in punitive damages , the filing said .
Payments from the Industry , Calif.-based direct-sales concern constituted about 26 % of Carrington 's sales for its fiscal year ended Nov. 30 , 1986 .
On top of that , the filing also disclosed that Carrington does n't currently have working capital to carry it past 1987 , and that it does n't have a bank line of credit or other arrangement through which it can obtain additional funds .
For its fiscal year ended Nov. 30 , Carrington reported a loss of $ 3.4 million on sales of $ 3.5 million .
But Clinton Howard , Carrington 's president , is unfazed .
The lawsuit , to which Carrington has responded with its own , is `` insignificant '' in his opinion , and did n't warrant a press release at the time it was filed .
`` We 've been negotiating for settlement .
Our own attorneys have agreed with us and felt that Nutri-Metics did n't have any serious suit , so we did n't feel it was worthy of sending -LRB- a press release -RRB- over , '' he said .
Carrington will generate working capital past 1987 , Mr. Howard and the filing said , by granting other companies licenses to develop and market products containing Carrisyn , a pharmaceutical using derivatives from the aloe vera plant that the company claims successfully treats bedsores , ulcerative colitis , and acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
The company says it plans to seek approval soon from the Food and Drug Administration for human clinical tests of its compound as an AIDS treatment .
In October , the FDA ordered a private physician to stop his independent human tests of the compound as an AIDS treatment .
Mr. Howard said the company is in `` serious '' discussions with three large drug companies for Carrisyn licensing agreements .
Also , he said , the company 's wound-treatment division is `` growing fast ' and alone could support the company 's cash needs in about a year .
As for the company 's profitability , Mr. Howard predicts Carrington will be in the black by the end of the year .
Nutri-Metics could not immediately be reached for comment .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , Carrington common stock , which has traded as high as $ 33 and as low as $ 9.25 in the past year , closed at $ 21 , down 25 cents .
PacifiCorp said it completed the sale of $ 150 million of preferred stock and will use proceeds to pay short-term debt , to fund new construction and for other purposes .
The utility , coal mining and financial services concern said it sold $ 100 million of two series of auction-rate , no par preferred .
The initial dividend was set at a 4.7 % annual rate for seven weeks for Series A and 4 3/4 % for 10 weeks for Series B , PacifiCorp said .
Dividends will be reset by auction thereafter .
PacifiCorp said it sold $ 50 million of no par serial 7.12 % preferred , part of which is to be redeemed through a sinking fund beginning in 1993 and to be retired in 2027 .
American Express Co. 's board will be asked Monday to approve a public offering of part of the company 's Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. securities unit , company sources said .
Meanwhile , American Express announced that it had reached an `` understanding '' to sell a 13 % stake in Shearson to Tokyo-based Nippon Life Insurance Co. for about $ 530 million .
American Express sources said that if the board approves the public offering , an announcement would be made late Monday , followed by a news conference Tuesday .
The sources declined to say how much of Shearson , one of the nation 's largest and most profitable securities firms , might be offered to the public .
Board approval is also necessary before a definitive agreement can be reached with Nippon Life , by far Japan 's largest life insurance concern .
The Nippon Life accord also hinges on the approval of Japan 's Ministry of Finance .
American Express declined to comment on the reports of plans for a board vote on a Shearson offering .
In its announcement , which was expected , American Express , the charge-card and travel-services giant , said it and Shearson would `` explore mutually advantageous , nonexclusive business and investment opportunities '' with Nippon Life .
American Express has been anxious to improve its own stock price and to relieve itself of the burden of funding Shearson 's mounting need for capital .
Like other major securities houses , Shearson is rapidly expanding operations overseas , while investing increasing amounts of its own funds in corporate finance , an activity known as merchant banking .
At the end of last year , Shearson had equity capital of $ 1.36 billion and total capital , including debt , of $ 2.8 billion .
But Rodney Schwartz , an analyst at PaineWebber Inc. , figures Shearson should have a value of about $ 4.3 billion in equity if it were a stand-alone firm in the public market .
American Express sources said the $ 530 million from Nippon Life would be added to Shearson 's equity capital .
The increased equity would also allow Shearson to borrow more .
American Express 's confirmation of a deal with Nippon Life , which had been rumored in the market Wednesday , sent its stock up only 12.5 cents yesterday to close at $ 78.75 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
Volume was roughly 1.5 million shares , about half Wednesday 's turnover , when the stock climbed $ 1 on rumors of the Nippon Life tie .
Analysts calculated that Shearson 's book value is now about $ 1.49 billion .
Thus , analysts said , the indicated 2.7-times-book value Nippon Life would be paying for its stake is slightly better than what some other top securities firms have been trading at in the public market .
A Nippon Life association also would offer Shearson a link with one of the wealthiest Japanese financial institutions and an influential partner in one of the world 's most dynamic financial markets .
Backed by one of the world 's highest savings rates and a huge current account surplus -- a broad measure of trade in goods and services -- Japan is one of the most liquid countries in the world .
A slowing domestic economy is encouraging Japanese individuals and institutions to invest more in financial instruments , a trend that benefits large securities firms such as Shearson .
Analysts see a role for Shearson as a money manager as well as an agent for Nippon Life 's purchases of U.S. government securities and stocks .
As of March 31 , 1986 -- the end of its fiscal year -- Nippon Life had the equivalent of $ 82.98 billion in assets .
Analysts also said that Shearson , which has a unit that structures real estate limited partnerships , could work with Nippon Life on real estate investing .
Nippon Life also could help Shearson obtain investment banking relationships in Japan and a seat on the Tokyo Stock Exchange .
A Nippon Life-Shearson partnership would n't face the strict management restrictions that the Federal Reserve Board placed on Sumitomo Bank Ltd. 's $ 500 million investment in Goldman , Sachs & Co. last year .
The federal Glass-Steagall Act , which separates commercial and investment banking , does n't apply to insurance companies .
In the U.S. , Nippon Life has a representative office and three subsidiaries .
The office mostly conducts research and analysis of U.S. financial markets for its Tokyo parent .
A wholly owned unit , Nissei Life America Inc. , acts as an agent , selling life insurance products , mostly to Japanese companies in the U.S. .
Nippon Life also has a subsidiary , Nissei Realty Inc. , which invests in U.S. real estate , and a joint venture with Bank of Tokyo Ltd. that manages assets on behalf of non-American investors .
They came in ships , at the turn of the century and after the world wars .
By the hundreds of thousands they came , all of them looking for a better life .
Six million European immigrants arrived in Argentina between 1860 and 1964 , and they slowly drew the features of Argentina 's 30 million population .
Today , however , their discouraged grandchildren are crowding the planes that will take them to more promising latitudes .
Since 1960 approximately 601,000 Argentines have settled abroad , according to a report co-sponsored by the Center for Population Studies and the United Nations Institute for Social Development and Research .
The most sought after destinations are the U.S. , Brazil , Spain , Venezuela , Australia and Canada .
`` I will be out of work shortly ; that 's why I want to leave , '' says Ruben Arabean , a 30-year-old engineer , married with two children .
As he waits in line for his immigration visa at the Australian Embassy , he explains : `` I want to live in a country where things are planned out , where the budget is approved at the beginning of the year , not at the end . ''
While a television screen publicizes the bounties of Sydney , Canberra and Melbourne , Mr. Arabean concludes : `` If I do n't take the leap at 30 , I 'll never do it . ''
The diaspora craze is so pervasive that in September a consulting agency for potential emigrators opened its offices at the fancy Alvear Palace Hotel .
Orientar , as the firm is called , publishes a $ 24 guide with 10,000 tips to get jobs , second passports and work permits in 26 countries .
`` In less than two weeks we sold out our first edition , '' says Carlos Alberto Denari , Orientar 's enthusiastic director .
He explained that his firm also runs a computerized data bank connected to personnel agencies in the U.S. and Italy .
An unrelentless economic decline -- the legacy of several decades of corporate-statist presidents and military governments -- is the clue to understanding Argentina 's new status as a breeder of emigrants .
While there are encouraging new signs that Argentine policy makers may , at last , be recognizing the destructive qualities of a bloated , statist economy , those who are leaving need more substantive evidence of a change in the economy .
Argentina began to shed its population in the 1960s , after the full impact of Juan Peron 's statist economy became manifest .
Many important economic areas were , and still are , out of bounds for those professionals who had no entry into government bureaucracies -LRB- because oil , coal , gas , electricity , post office , railways , airways , communications and water supply are activities monopolized by the state companies -RRB- .
This created , and still creates , an academic lumpen-proletariat , forced either to evade the shrinking , formal economy by operating within the underground economy or to physically get out , which is another form of evasion .
Brutal left-wing terrorism , a `` dirty-war '' military reaction that stopped the chaotic aggression at a significant social cost and chronic three-digit inflation rates were the hallmarks of the 1970s .
This grim decade saw an additional 248,000 Argentines leave their homeland , this time from all segments of society .
Of course , the return to democracy in 1983 , and President Raul Alfonsin 's commitment to halt inflation , slowed the urge to leave for a short time .
But the increasing focus on the debt and uncertainty about the future of the economic `` Plan Austral '' -- particularly in light of the failure of the Cruzado Plan in neighboring Brazil -- have once again been pushing people out the door .
Recent statements from President Alfonsin 's top advisers indicate that Argentina 's economic planners seem much more willing to adapt to the realities of the marketplace than were Brazil 's planners .
Adolfo Canitrot , secretary of economics , was quoted this week as saying : `` An open market is the only acceptable way out for Argentina 's problems and to achieve sustained growth . ''
Other advisers have stressed the need for the state to get out of the productive sectors and manage only the essential services .
However , to reverse the flow of emigration , the government must tackle some extremely complicated byproducts of statist management :
-- Pensioners , who were forced to pay mandatory retirement dues to the state while in active work , are now obliged to survive on less than $ 70 a month .
Years of regimes continually dipping into the social-security well for their own purposes have all but bankrupted the system .
When the Supreme Court ruled that the state would have to pay senior citizens close to $ 25 billion -LRB- half the country 's foreign debt -RRB- in delayed or underassessed pensions , the Executive declared a `` state of social-security emergency , '' because the money simply does n't exist .
President Alfonsin has expressed interest in starting a private social-security system .
-- Argentina 's informal -LRB- underground -RRB- economy may be as high as 60 % of its GNP , a thorough analysis carried out by the Institute for Contemporary Studies revealed recently .
This means that more than half of the population finds no incentives to produce and save within the legal economic system .
Those disincentives that drive people out of the legal sector must be identified and eliminated .
-- A terribly confusing and ominously progressive tax system -LRB- in which 36 % of all tax revenue comes from 1,500 taxpayers -RRB- just gets worse .
People continue to try every trick to avoid taxes while the government continues to increase taxes .
Value-added tax evasion is estimated to be 70 % .
Out of 2,800,000 taxpayers , only 1,200,000 bother to file returns .
Despite many tax-amnesty bills , the root causes of tax evasion -- regulation and excessive taxes -- are not attacked .
-- The law of privatization is stalled in Congress , and , anyway , excludes the 11 `` Sacred Cows '' -LRB- the state monopolies -RRB- .
The new emphasis is on making state monopolies more efficient by creating an interministry holding company with `` really capable '' businessmen to run them .
-- Nothing is done about federal expenditures -- they seem to be `` inelastic , '' as a government official said recently .
Yet the public sees millions wasted in ways that become increasingly difficult to justify .
For example , three of the four television stations are owned by the government , and two of those stations sustain a combined loss of $ 2 million a month .
The private station makes about $ 1.2 million a month .
Yes , the winds seem to be slowly changing for the better .
But the emphasis still seems to be misplaced .
`` Enlightened protectionists '' say : `` Make the monopolies more efficient , '' without placing enough emphasis on deregulation and complete privatization .
Until this is achieved , and a favorable socioeconomic environment is restored , people will go where it is simpler and more profitable to live .
As a U.S. patriot once said : `` Where freedom dwells , there is my country . ''
Mr. Helguera is a lawyer , economist and rancher from Buenos Aires .
General Automotive Corp. denied that it discussed with LTV Corp. the purchase of LTV 's AM General division , which makes military vehicles .
The closely held bus maker said in a statement : `` Contrary to published reports , General Automotive Corp. has had no discussions with LTV concerning the purchase of its AM General division and has made no purchase offer . ''
Cruse W. Moss , General Automotive 's chairman and chief executive officer , was out of town and could n't be reached for elaboration .
As previously reported , sources close to AM General and to Mr. Moss said that the executive , who was president of AM General until 1980 , proposed purchasing the unit in a meeting with Raymond A. Hay , chairman and chief executive of Dallas-based LTV. Mr. Hay has rebuffed the offer from Mr. Moss , the sources said .
LTV purchased AM General from American Motors Corp. in 1983 for $ 170 million .
The sources said yesterday that they expect Mr. Moss to continue to pursue either a purchase of or joint venture with AM General , but that he probably will remain in the background for a while .
LTV has repeatedly denied that Mr. Hay has discussed any such proposal with Mr. Moss .
AM General in the past two years failed to get renewal of a big competitive contract that accounted for half of its revenue and was outbid on several others .
The unit , which had operating losses last year , is part of LTV 's aerospace and defense unit , the company 's only consistently profitable business .
The big steel , aerospace and defense company filed last July for protection from creditors ' lawsuits under Chapter 11 of the federal Bankruptcy Code .
LTV made the bankruptcy-law filing because of huge pension and interest costs and burgeoning losses at its beleaguered steel unit , the nation 's second-largest .
It plans to reorganize around the aerospace and defense unit .
Crude oil spot and futures prices eased and some petroleum product futures prices firmed after wide intraday swings in choppy and uncertain trading .
The April crude oil contract opened higher on the New York Mercantile Exchange before dropping to an intraday low of 38 cents a barrel under Wednesday 's close .
But late demand pared the decline to a modest nine cents a barrel , with the April contract settling at $ 18.60 a barrel .
The May contract managed to close up 18 cents at $ 18.36 a barrel .
In the heating oil market , the April contract posted a gain of 0.24 cent for the day , settling at 50.59 cents a gallon , while the May contract closed at 49.38 cents a gallon , up 0.80 cent .
Both months recovered from early price weakness .
The spot , or non-contract , price rallied from early declines , but did n't manage to get into the plus column for the day .
West Texas Intermediate , the benchmark U.S. crude , late in the day was quoted at $ 18.70 a barrel , a decline of about 15 cents after earlier being as much as 35 cents lower .
Some traders blamed the early weakness in product prices for the selling pressure on crude oil futures , the same situation that drove the market Wednesday .
One analyst said there 's a spreading perception that recent tightness in heating oil has been alleviated somewhat as the heating oil season draws to a close .
Analysts said that some traders , instead of rolling forward their positions by selling their April contracts and reinstating them in more deferred contracts , were liquidating them outright , creating pressure on the market .
One analyst said the feeling was growing that the market has reached its nearterm objective of $ 19 a barrel and `` the enthusiasm to buy oil at $ 19 is n't what it was at $ 16 . ''
Peter Cardillo , trading adviser for Josephthal & Co. , New York , termed the market `` basically overbought . ''
The market appeared to be ignoring a 1 % decline in North Sea oil production , to 2.75 million barrels a day , because it was ascribed to maintenance work , he said .
`` I see the market pulling back somewhat to the $ 18 to $ 17.90 area , '' Mr. Cardillo said .
Eric Bolling , oil broker for Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in Boston , believed most of the heavy selling that prevailed in all positions was principally hedging by oil companies to protect prices of oil they had bought .
The pre-expiration liquidation in the April contract pushed that position down more than the other months , he acknowledged .
In other futures markets yesterday :
STOCK INDEXES : Futures prices climbed as traders began to bail out of the market in anticipation of today 's triple witching hour , or simultaneous expiration of stock-index futures and options and individual stock options .
To avoid an anticipated volume surge this afternoon , many traders closed out their positions , said Jeffery Tabak , a managing partner of Miller , Tabak , Hirsch & Co. , New York .
Another factor was the New York Stock Exchange 's planned tightening of rules on disclosure of stock trades before today 's close .
`` There was a lot of unwinding '' of positions , said J.R. Fredericks , an analyst with E. David Stephens Commodity Corp. , Chicago .
Generally , though , traders ' worries about a possible washout today eased .
Mr. Tabak said , `` There was concern toward the end of last week that it would be a very down day .
People are now fairly convinced it will n't be . ''
Continued speculation that Japan and West Germany will make a new round of discount rate cuts , stimulating their economies , also lifted stock-index prices , some analysts said .
LIVESTOCK AND MEAT : Pork belly futures prices rose the maximum daily limit of $ 2 for the second consecutive day .
Traders are `` trying to get prices high enough to divert bellies into storage , '' said Jerry Abbenhaus , an analyst with A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. in St. Louis .
Light movement of bellies , or uncured slabs of bacon , into storage may create a shortage this summer , analysts said .
Higher wholesale prices buoyed hog prices , analysts said .
Cattle prices continued their upward trend .
SUGAR : Futures prices closed higher despite a higher estimate of Cuban production by a major London sugar brokerage house .
The May contract ended 0.13 cent higher at 7.77 cents a pound after recovering from an early decline touched off by the projection , according to analysts .
The British brokerage , C. Czarnikow , estimated Cuban production this year will total 7.5 million metric tons , about 1.5 million tons ahead of last year 's output , analysts said .
Earlier predictions among traders had Cuban production dropping to as little as six million tons because of drought and harvesting delays .
The market is more focused on the perception that new demand for sugar is about to come from Japan , South Korea and China , although traders said they did n't have details .
One analyst observed that if Czarnikow 's Cuban projection proves accurate , any Soviet buying on the world market would be reduced significantly .
With a 7.5 million-ton harvest , Cuba might supply about 3.7 million tons to the Soviet Union and this , along with estimated Soviet domestic output of about 8.75 million tons , would leave only a few hundred thousand tons for the Soviets to buy , the analyst said .
GRAINS AND SOYBEANS : Corn futures prices were mixed .
Lack of generic certificate movement and continued rumors about Soviet corn purchases gave strength to the nearby contract , analysts said .
Wheat prices finished mixed on speculation that a speech by a high-level government official could result in subsidized wheat sales to the Soviets .
Soybean and meal prices were up as oil prices closed lower .
Fleet Financial Group said it may have to sell its bank holding company in Connecticut before it merges with Norstar Bancorp .
Under Connecticut banking laws , a New England bank holding company such as Fleet would n't be allowed to operate a Connecticut bank holding company if it merged with a non-New England company .
Norstar is based in Albany , N.Y. Last March , Fleet acquired First Connecticut Bancorp , a Hartford-based bank holding company that operates four banks in that state .
As previously reported , Fleet and Norstar have agreed to merge in a stock swap valued at about $ 1.3 billion , the largest banking combination ever .
The merger still requires regulatory clearance and approval by both companies ' shareholders .
Fleet said it plans to approach Connecticut banking authorities to propose an amendment that would allow New England bank holding companies to keep their Connecticut franchises if they affiliate with a non-New England company .
`` We have been a good corporate citizen in Connecticut and have brought new products and services to that franchise , '' said J. Terrence Murray , Fleet 's chairman and president .
`` From our point of view , it would n't make sense to drive Fleet out . ''
Mr. Murray would n't say whether Fleet would sell First Connecticut if the proposed amendment is rejected .
`` Obviously , if the day of closing -LRB- on the merger -RRB- arrives , divesting would be our sole alternative , '' he said .
`` But it 's our feeling the Connecticut law is going to change sooner or later to reflect what 's happening in the world of banking . ''
Fleet and Norstar expect to complete their merger around July 1 , 1988 , when Rhode Island will remove barriers to interstate banking outside of New England .
The Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll is based on telephone interviews conducted last Sunday , Monday and Tuesday with 2,153 adults nationwide .
The sample was drawn from 400 locations across the country and weighted to reflect the appropriate regional distribution .
Households were selected by a method that gave all telephone numbers , listed and unlisted , a proportionate chance of being included .
One adult , 18 years old or older , was chosen from each household by a systematic procedure to provide the appropriate balance between men and women .
Chances are 19 of 20 that if all households with telephones in the U.S. had been surveyed using the same questionnaire , the results would differ from the poll findings by no more than three percentage points in either direction .
-LRB- See : `` President Is Viewed as Too Set in His Ways To Change His Governing Style , Poll Shows '' -- WSJ March 20 , 1987 -RRB-
Twenty-eight Japanese commercial banks announced , as expected , that they have set up a company that will assume part of their loans outstanding to Latin American countries .
The move is aimed at helping the institutions maintain their `` financial health , '' the banks said .
The group , which includes Fuji Bank Ltd. , Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank Ltd. , Sumitomo Bank Ltd. , Bank of Tokyo Ltd. and Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd. , said the new company , JBA Investment Inc. , will be based in the Cayman Islands .
Bank officials said JBA Investment , capitalized at $ 84,000 , will be headed by Shigeru Murata , former managing director of Fuji Bank .
The company will issue preferred stock , which will be purchased by the participating banks .
Proceeds from the stock sales will be used to buy Latin American loans from the banks at a discount .
Then the company will either pool the loans and try to resell them to investors , or hold them to maturity .
The establishment of JBA Investment is `` part of the efforts by the country 's commercial banks to counter the problem of Latin America 's mounting external debts and its inability to pay interest , '' one official said .
Bankers say U.S. banks are n't likely to imitate the Japanese action .
They also raised the question of whether such a plan would be workable under U.S. regulations .
Japanese banks have the second-largest Third World debt exposure -- the U.S. has the largest -- and the Finance Ministry estimates that Japanese banks ' outstanding loans to Latin American countries totaled $ 30 billion at the end of 1985 , the latest year for which statistics are available .
The Osaka Stock Exchange said it is postponing plans to begin limited stock-index futures trading because of a delay in passing securities tax legislation in Japan 's parliament .
The April 6 starting date would have established the country 's first stock-index futures trading system .
Spokesmen for the Osaka exchange could n't predict when a new date could be scheduled , saying everything depended on when the necessary changes could be passed .
The postponement is described as temporary , in view of protracted debate over passage of Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone 's tax revision package , which contains tax rate changes on stock-index futures trading .
The delay stems from opposition party members objecting to the tax plan .
The Osaka exchange 's board decided to postpone the date after the government moved to create a provisional budget covering the first 50 days of the fiscal year beginning April 1 .
The development dashed hopes that the tax package could be approved before April 6 .
Mark IV Industries Inc. , which disclosed earlier this month that it might seek control of Baird Corp. , said it does n't intend at this time to acquire enough additional stock to trigger Baird 's shareholder rights plan .
Mark IV , which holds a 17.6 % stake in Baird , said in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that it met with Baird executives last Tuesday and informed them that it expects to buy more Baird stock , but not enough to boost its holdings to more than 25 % -- the level that would trigger the recently adopted rights plan .
According to the filing , Mark IV and Baird executives reached `` certain understandings '' at the meeting , but `` did n't engage in any substantive discussions or negotiations regarding any merger or other material transactions between the two companies . ''
Arthur Crozier , counsel for Baird , declined to comment on the filing .
Baird is a Bedford , Mass.-based maker of analytical and optical instruments .
Mark IV is an Amherst , N.Y.-based maker of industrial , defense and aerospace products .
According to the filing , Mark IV left open the possibility that it might seek to acquire Baird by means `` other than a negotiated merger or other form of business combination , '' such as a cash tender offer .
Mark IV said at the meeting that the company would give Baird 24 hours ' notice if it decides to launch a tender offer , the filing said .
In addition , Baird said at the meeting that it would give Mark IV 24 hours ' notice of any defensive measures it decided to take , the filing said .
A Federal Bureau of Investigation agent said in an affidavit filed in federal court here that Endotronics Inc. apparently issued misleading financial statements overstating its sales .
After searching two Minneapolis-area warehouses for machines the biotechnology company supposedly sold to Japanese distributors , the agent concluded that many of the cell-replicating devices reported as sold actually remained under Endotronics ' control .
According to the affidavit , warehouse personnel said they were told to say that the machines were being held for their buyers `` to satisfy the outside auditors of Endotronics . ''
In his affidavit , the agent concluded that `` sales of Endotronics have been improperly recorded in their quarterly and annual financial statements . . . and that two or more persons have conspired to commit these offenses . ''
As previously reported , federal and Minnesota authorities are investigating how Endotronics accounted for sales of the machines and why some of the equipment reported as sold never left the U.S. No charges have been filed against the company .
Officials of the troubled concern based here said they could n't comment until they had seen the affidavit .
The company 's outside auditor , Peat Marwick , also declined to comment .
As reported , Endotronics ' chairman and president recently resigned amid investigations of the company 's financial status .
REAGAN SAID he would n't repeat his Iran arms-sale initiative .
The president , in a nationally broadcast news conference , conceded that the policy had turned into an arms-for-hostages arrangement , and said he `` would not go down that same road again . ''
Reagan also said he was unaware until November that proceeds from the arms sales to Iran were being diverted to the Nicaraguan rebels , although he acknowledged that he knew private groups were aiding the insurgents .
He said it was `` hard to tell '' if the arms policy had complicated efforts to win the release of hostages in Lebanon .
Reagan insisted that the 1972 ABM treaty does n't bar tests of a space-based antimissile system , and he quoted a Soviet military official as his authority .
ISRAEL DECLARED limited sanctions against the South African government .
In an apparent response to U.S. demands that it review its policy toward Pretoria , Israel announced that it would reduce trade and cultural ties with South Africa as well as refrain from signing any new defense contracts .
While Israel cited South Africa 's apartheid policy , the move was viewed as an attempt to avoid possible cuts in U.S. military aid for defying a U.S. arms embargo on Pretoria .
An Israeli panel investigating the Pollard case could be disbanded because several witnesses have refused to testify about spying on the U.S. .
The Senate voted to begin civil proceedings to enforce its subpoena requiring retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Secord to turn over private bank records .
The financial data could provide information about the diversion of proceeds from U.S. arms sales to Iran to Nicaraguan rebels .
The Reagan administration has moved an aircraft carrier battle group into the northern Arabian Sea within striking distance of new Iranian missile batteries , U.S. officials disclosed .
The officials also said that Navy ships soon may begin escorting commercial vessels bound for Kuwait .
The Senate passed a five-year , $ 88 billion federal highway bill despite a veto threat from Reagan .
The chamber , however , postponed action on a separate measure to allow states to increase the speed limit to 65 mph on most rural interstate highways .
Poland 's labor unions warned that they would call a strike if authorities raise food prices next month .
The threat by the government-controlled unions , which claim more than six million workers , was unprecedented in the East bloc .
Warsaw had announced price increases of 14 % for food , transportation and heating costs .
French intelligence agents arrested four men and two women on suspicion of spying involving the manufacture of engines for Europe 's Ariane satellite-delivery rocket .
A spokesman for the international space consortium said the six people were allegedly passing classified data to a foreign nation .
The country was n't identified .
A Justice Department aide said Meese has expressed doubts about the constitutionality of the law authorizing independent counsels to conduct inquiries such as the investigation of the Iran-Contra affair .
Assistant Attorney General Bolton told a Senate panel that the law should be changed so that the president appoints the prosecutor .
Attorney General Meese advocated mandatory drug testing for the nation 's school teachers in a major expansion of the Reagan administration 's campaign against drugs .
Calling teachers important role models , Meese backed programs requiring teachers on probation to pass drug tests .
Turkey 's foreign minister said congressional cuts in foreign aid to Ankara could undermine popular support in his country for ties with the U.S. .
He indicated that U.S. bases and intelligence gathering facilities in Turkey , a strategic NATO post , could be at risk if U.S. assistance is reduced .
A Chinese parliamentary panel rejected a draft industrial enterprise law .
Western diplomats said the move was an indication of the strength of Communist Party hardliners believed locked in a power struggle with those seeking economic change .
An Air Force official said the administration 's current space-based anti-missile plan was designed to fit within the restrictive view of the 1972 ABM treaty , rather than the wider interpretation of the pact supported by Reagan .
The official , director of the SDI program , said a broader reading of the pact would n't be needed in `` the near future . ''
NASA 's chief astronaut said the planned Feb. 18 , 1988 , launch date for the first post-Challenger shuttle flight will be impossible to meet because a `` mountain '' of work remains to be completed , the Houston Chronicle reported .
The comments contradicted the space agency 's deputy administrator , who said the target can be met .
Communist rebels ambushed a Philippine army patrol on a southern island , sparking an hourlong battle that left 18 soldiers dead .
It was the second such attack this week and was considered the worst fighting since the Feb. 8 expiration of a 60-day cease-fire in the 18-year-old insurgency .
Syrian troops in Beirut threatened retaliation if kidnappers kill any of the more than two dozen foreign hostages in Lebanon .
Police said Damascus 's threat was made in messages to Shiite Moslem clergymen .
Separately , Iran denied a Soviet magazine report that Anglican envoy Terry Waite is being held in Tehran 's embassy in Beirut .
Vice President Bush 's chief spokesman strongly denied a published report quoting a central figure in the Iran-Contra scandal as saying that he sent Mr. Bush a $ 1,000 check for the Nicaraguan resistance movement .
The allegation by Saudi businessman Adnan Khashoggi was published in yesterday 's Washington Times .
The newspaper said that Mr. Khashoggi , who helped finance the sale of U.S. arms to Iran , asserted in an interview that he was invited to a lunch , hosted by Mr. Bush in 1985 , aimed at raising funds for Contras .
During most of 1985 , Congress barred U.S. aid to the rebels .
Mr. Bush 's press secretary , Larry Thomas , described the story as `` false and misleading . ''
Mr. Thomas said the vice president had never solicited funds from Mr. Khashoggi for the Contras , had n't hosted a lunch involving Mr. Khashoggi and had never accepted any money from him .
Mr. Thomas said Mr. Bush made brief remarks to a conservative organization at a White House briefing in March 1986 on lobbying efforts to support the administration 's Contra-aid package then pending before Congress .
The vice president 's office released an exchange of letters between Mr. Bush and Mr. Khashoggi .
A March 1986 letter from Mr. Khashoggi showed the Saudi expressed support for the aid program , and said he had two representatives at the briefing .
But the letter does n't mention a contribution .
In April , Mr. Bush sent Mr. Khashoggi a letter thanking him for his support .
Steven Michael Sullivan , a former stockbroker with Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. 's Newport Beach office , was charged with 42 counts of securities violations , theft and embezzlement totaling $ 1.4 million .
Henry P. Rupp III , a deputy district attorney for Riverside County , said the charges brought by his office against Mr. Sullivan relate to transactions involving an 80-year-old former client , Margaret Van Luven , after she had been hospitalized with severe anemia in March 1983 .
The district attorney 's office charged that Mr. Sullivan , 43 years old , had Miss Van Luven assign him her power of attorney , and that Mr. Sullivan then obtained $ 1.4 million from her accounts through various bond and stock transactions .
It charged that Mr. Sullivan used proceeds from the transactions for his own personal purposes , including the financing of a Newport Beach business magazine , Liberty Street Chronicle , that he operated until it ceased publication in January 1985 .
An attorney for Mr. Sullivan said that all the transactions between the Mr. Sullivan and Miss Van Luven had been `` signed by her and notarized . ''
Spokesmen for Smith Barney in Newport Beach were n't available for comment , although one Smith Barney employee said Mr. Sullivan had n't worked there for over a year .
Texas Eastern Corp. said Petrolane Partners L.P. began its public offering of 12.5 million units at $ 20.50 a unit .
As reported , Petrolane Partners is a master limited partnership that will own and operate Texas Eastern 's domestic liquefied petroleum gas distribution business .
Texas Eastern owns about a 45 % interest in Petrolane Partners .
Completion of the sale is expected next Thursday .
Kidder , Peabody & Co. is the manager of the underwriting group .
Along with stagnant ratings , CBS Inc. 's president and chief executive officer , Laurence A. Tisch , now has his own credibility to worry about .
After six turbulent months as the head of CBS , Mr. Tisch has won praise on Wall Street for cutting CBS costs .
But in forging ahead to restructure the company , he has seen his image crumble within CBS and among some outsiders because of apparent contradictions between some of his statements and actions , particularly relating to recent cutbacks at CBS News .
Some CBS managers and employees say privately that they are perplexed by those apparent contradictions , and they question his integrity .
Mr. Tisch denies ever lying about his actions or intentions .
But , seeking to limit the possibility of further discord , he is now consulting a prominent public relations executive and revamping his public relations strategy .
Whether these moves alone will improve his standing among some employees remains to be seen .
`` It is broken , '' he said of CBS 's image , without reference to himself , in an interview yesterday .
`` I think that we can and we have to project -- I will n't use the word image -- but there are two sides to the story .
All of the news that came out in the last two weeks was negative , and there is a positive story . ''
Mainly under Mr. Tisch , and excluding sales of divisions , the broadcasting company in the past year has cut its payroll by about 2,000 employees , to about 20,000 people world-wide .
The reductions will save the company approximately $ 80 million to $ 100 million annually , CBS sources said .
The company 's stock has risen sharply since Mr. Tisch took over .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , CBS rose $ 1.125 to $ 160.625 .
But after being named acting chief executive in September , Mr. Tisch was quoted in various news reports as saying that , for example , he did n't want to become permanent chief executive and had `` complete confidence '' in his top managers .
And he described initial reports that he was seeking major budget cuts at CBS News as `` ludicrous . ''
Later , Mr. Tisch was named permanent chief executive after hinting he wanted the post ; stripped the head of CBS publishing operations of his duties ; and approved $ 30 million in cutbacks at CBS News .
At least one director , Walter Cronkite , has criticized Mr. Tisch 's handling of the news cuts , which included the dismissal of 215 people and the closing of three bureaus .
But the board agreed with Mr. Tisch that the cuts were necessary .
Mr. Tisch still faces scrutiny in Congress , which is preparing to hold hearings on news division cuts at all three networks .
Mr. Tisch attributed the apparent contradictions to , among other things , being misquoted or taken out of context in some news reports ; misinterpretation by some CBS managers to his off-the-cuff remarks , which were leaked to the press .
He also noted that changing circumstances sometimes caused him to change his mind .
`` The most important thing to me is my integrity , '' Mr. Tisch said , `` and everything I 've said has been true '' at the time .
Colleagues also attribute Mr. Tisch 's public relations problem to inexperience in the spotlight that comes with being CBS chief executive .
`` He did n't realize how public it is and how quickly the tide could turn against him , '' said one CBS executive .
As chairman of Loews Corp. , which now controls 25 % of CBS shares , Mr. Tisch rarely spoke with the press and was n't subject to much public scrutiny .
And until now , Mr. Tisch has been known primarily as a savvy investor and top stock-picker rather than as a corporate manager .
Associates say Mr. Tisch was particularly troubled by the backlash over the recent CBS News cutbacks .
Mr. Tisch initially said CBS News President Howard Stringer initiated the cuts .
But later , after Mr. Stringer protested , he acknowledged that he had suggested the division might operate efficiently with 15 % to 20 % less money .
On the advice of friends , Mr. Tisch is consulting public relations specialist John Scanlon , who is known in part for his work in CBS 's defense of a libel suit brought by retired Gen. William Westmoreland and for his handling of public relations for New York City during its 1970s fiscal crisis .
`` I think he said to me , ' Do n't be as off the cuff ' as I 've been , '' Mr. Tisch said .
And now Mr. Tisch plans to be more careful about his press contacts .
`` I 've lost a certain confidence in the press , I must say , '' he said in yesterday 's interview , which CBS tape-recorded and which was attended by a senior CBS public relations executive .
`` I will n't be as ready just to talk to people over the telephone , '' he said .
Federal aid to public schools in fiscal 1985 declined for the fifth straight year , and fell to 6.1 % of total public school revenue , the Census Bureau reported .
Federal aid to public schools totaled $ 8.9 billion in fiscal 1985 , which ended Sept. 30 , 1985 .
This compares with $ 9.1 billion , or about 9 % of the total , in fiscal 1980 .
About $ 1.4 billion went to local school systems directly in fiscal 1985 ; another $ 7.5 billion was distributed through state and local governments for vocational education , school lunch , and other programs .
The Census Bureau reported that public school revenue totaled $ 146 billion in fiscal 1985 , a 9 % increase from the year before .
An 11 % increase in direct state aid was the main reason for the rise .
State aid accounted for 46 % of general public school revenue in fiscal 1985 .
Local taxes and governments accounted for 48 % of total revenue for schools , with property taxes being the single largest source of local revenue .
Spending rose 9 % in fiscal 1985 to $ 143 billion .
Salaries continued in 1985 to represent the largest single area of spending , at 60 % .
Construction outlays for the year rebounded after a four-year decline , rising 23 % to $ 5.2 billion .
Increases were reported by 40 states .
A Senate panel voted to plug loopholes that allow many partnerships to begin takeover bids without first filing under the pre-merger notification requirements of antitrust law .
Currently , partnerships that are formed specifically to complete such acquisitions often can acquire large blocks of shares in target companies without disclosing the purchases .
They also do n't have to provide the Justice Department or the Federal Trade Commission with information about their intentions and the likely competitive impact of the proposed transactions .
The Senate Judiciary antitrust subcommittee yesterday approved by voice vote a measure to include partnerships in the filing requirements under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act .
But subcommittee Chairman Howard Metzenbaum -LRB- D. , Ohio -RRB- indicated he would drop his push to close the loophole if the FTC adopts a regulation accomplishing the same thing .
`` If the -LRB- Reagan -RRB- administration acts and achieves the same result , so be it , '' Sen. Metzenbaum said .
`` But they have a way to go . ''
The FTC has proposed a rule to narrow the loophole , but Sen. Metzenbaum said the proposal would n't cover all partners that might launch a takeover bid .
The legislation is designed to prevent raiders from launching takeovers without pre-merger notification .
The measure is expected to be passed by the full committee .
Thomson S.A. and Stet S.p.A. confirmed that talks are under way on a possible agreement in the field of nonmilitary semiconductors .
Sources have said the accord would involve a merger of the two companies ' semiconductor operations , creating the second-largest such company in Europe , after N.V. Philips of the Netherlands .
A minority of both Thomson 's and SGS 's semiconductor operations are in the military field , and these would n't be included in the merger , sources say .
In a joint statement , Thomson and Stet said that any accord would be submitted to the Italian and French governments for approval .
Thomson is one of the French government-owned companies scheduled for denationalization , and Stet is the telecommunications unit of Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale , an Italian government-owned holding company .
JEFFERIES GROUP 'S chairman , Boyd Jefferies , agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of securities law violations .
He also settled SEC charges he was involved in market manipulation and a scheme with Ivan Boesky .
The SEC censured the firm 's trading unit .
The developments confirm the securities scandal has moved far beyond insider trading .
American Express 's board will be asked Monday to approve a share offering in the Shearson Lehman unit , sources said .
Meanwhile , American Express announced its plan to sell a 13 % stake in Shearson to Tokyo-based Nippon Life for $ 530 million .
Consumer spending jumped 1.7 % in February after plunging the month before .
Despite the rebound , led by higher auto sales , spending is expected to fall or change little this quarter .
Meanwhile , personal income rose a healthy 0.9 % last month .
A top SEC official proposed brief , simultaneous trading halts in stock and stock-index markets to combat excessive price volatility .
Saudi Arabia has cut oil production to a near-record low in an effort to prop up oil prices , sources said .
The Saudis also are leading OPEC in resisting sales of crude below the group 's target of $ 18 a barrel .
Energy Secretary Herrington said his proposal to restore a tax break for the oil industry is limited in scope and less costly than indicated earlier .
Mexico is expected today to sign a $ 7.7 billion loan accord with most of its foreign banks .
The signing was delayed for months by a dispute among banks that could affect future loans to distressed debtor nations .
The U.S. is headed for another confrontation with Latin American debtors over its plan to overhaul the Inter-American Development Bank .
Japanese microchip producers are continuing to sell in foreign markets at unfairly low prices , violating a U.S.-Japanese trade accord , a Commerce Department review says .
The House Budget panel approved a nearly $ 8 billion cut in military spending for next year .
The move indicates general agreement with a deficit plan by Democratic leaders .
Xerox decided to sell its South African operations .
It was one of the last die-hard supporters of a U.S. corporate presence in South Africa .
American Motors ' board is to meet today amid speculation that Chrysler may have to sweeten its $ 4-a-share bid for the auto maker .
A Swiss-based commodities trader denied any ties to a former Merrill Lynch executive and an Israeli financier who have been charged in a major insider-trading case .
Short interest rose 2.5 % on the Big Board for the month ended March 13 .
It increased 4.3 % on the Amex .
McDonnell Douglas received a $ 650 million order from Swissair for six MD-11 wide-body jets and options to buy a dozen more .
The sale is a major victory for the aircraft maker .
AT&T plans a news conference for Tuesday in an attempt to bolster its image in the computer industry .
First Financial Management said it offered to buy Comdata Network , a Nashville-based money transfer concern , for cash and stock valued at $ 18 a share , or $ 342.7 million .
Stocks : Volume 166,120,000 shares .
Dow Jones industrials 2299.57 , up 12.64 ; transportation 945.86 , up 9.45 ; utilities 216.95 , up 0.46 .
Bonds : Dow Jones 20 bonds 94.94 , up 0.07 .
Commodities : Dow Jones futures index 113.43 , up 0.04 ; spot index 113.80 , up 0.06 .
The Dow Jones Industrial Average once again flirted with 2300 in nervous trading on the eve of today 's triple witching hour in the futures and options markets , but a final-hour rally fell a shade shy of that century mark .
Blue-chip stocks such as the 30 issues that make up the industrial average posted bigger gains than secondary stocks .
The industrial average rose 12.64 to 2299.57 -- its third consecutive record .
In addition to some nervousness over the impending futures and options expirations , the usual profit-taking when the industrial average approaches century marks might have pushed prices down slightly just before the closing bell , some traders said .
The average had traded briefly above 2300 during Wednesday 's session .
Standard & Poor 's 500-stock index moved up 1.30 to 294.08 , and the New York Stock Exchange composite index gained 0.64 to 167.28 .
Both market indexes also continued their winning streaks , but Big Board gainers just outpaced losers , 855 to 759 .
Trading was more active in the latter part of the afternoon , but overall volume was rather light by 1987 standards .
More than 166.1 million shares changed hands on the Big Board , down from 198.1 million Wednesday .
Fear of the wild price swings that have occasionally accompanied triple witching hour -- the once-quarterly simultaneous expiration of stock-index futures , index options and options on individual stocks -- has been keeping major institutional investors on the sidelines this week , traders said .
Richard Kehne in the equity trading department at S.G. Warburg & Co. said , `` We talked to several major institutions who said they were n't doing anything '' out of concern about triple witching hour .
Trying to figure out what stock prices will do in the final minutes of trading is `` almost like tossing a coin , '' said Gerald Simmons , a managing director with Smith Barney Harris Upham in New York .
The talk around some trading desks on Wall Street yesterday was that there could be an upward push on stock prices late today and that a large number of shares would be traded in the final minute because of a barrage of market-on-close orders .
Close to 100 million shares changed hands in the final minute at the previous triple expiration , Dec. 19 .
One futures trader estimated that if index funds , which tailor their portfolios to match the performance of the S&P 500 index , still own the March S&P 500 contract , they would have to either buy stocks or the June futures contract to replace the expiring March contract before today 's close .
Because the June S&P 500 contract is trading at a healthy premium to the S&P 500 index , this trader believes such fund managers might be more inclined to buy the stocks .
Most index fund managers are required to be fully invested in either the stocks that make up the S&P 500 index or the futures contracts .
In an attempt to curb stock-price volatility , the Big Board is asking members to enter voluntarily all market-on-close orders by 3:30 p.m. EST. Word of order imbalances will then be quickly disseminated through the market and , after 3:30 p.m. , only market-on-close orders on the other side of the imbalance or to initiate an arbitrage position can be entered .
Some market participants said these guidelines were a little vague and may still leave plenty of room for surprises at the closing bell .
At the Dec. 19 expiration , while it initially appeared that there would be substantially more sell orders to be processed at the close , a surprise buyer -- Salomon Brothers -- emerged in the final minutes and more than soaked up all the supply , driving up prices dramatically .
However , futures traders said that there are so many different strategies investors could employ today that accurately predicting the final impact on stock prices is impossible .
American Express inched up 1/8 to 78 3/4 on more than 1.4 million shares .
The financial services concern confirmed that it has a general agreement to sell Nippon Life Insurance Co. of Japan a 13 % interest in its Shearson Lehman Brothers unit for $ 530 million .
Wednesday , the stock rose a point on rumors of this transaction .
Nancy Young , who follows the brokerage industry for Tucker Anthony , estimates that Nippon Life would be paying nearly 2.8 times book value for the Shearson stake .
Because many publicly owned brokerage firms are trading between 1.5 times and 2.5 times book value , she believes investors `` have been significantly undervaluing '' these stocks .
That would help explain the rise in many brokerage stocks despite the news that Boyd L. Jefferies , chairman of Jefferies Group , abruptly resigned from the company and agreed to plead guilty to two felony counts of violating securities laws in a case partly stemming from the Ivan Boesky scandal .
Jefferies Group closed down 1/4 at 11 after trading as low as 9 1/4 in the over-the-counter market .
Merrill Lynch rose 2 1/2 to 45 1/4 in active trading .
The stock was reportedly recommended by PaineWebber .
Separately , Moody 's Investors Service downgraded Merrill Lynch 's long-term debt .
First Boston rose 1 to 51 1/4 , E.F. Hutton moved up 1 1/4 to 41 1/8 , L.F. Rothschild advanced 1 1/8 to 14 3/8 , PaineWebber moved up 7/8 to 37 3/4 and Bear Stearns added 1 to 21 3/4 .
However , Salomon eased 1/4 to 41 1/2 .
Morgan Stanley jumped 4 1/4 to 74 7/8 .
Perrin Long , a securities industry analyst with Lipper Analytical Services , speculated that some investors were betting that Morgan Stanley might attract another foreign investor that would be willing to pay top dollar for the Wall Street firm .
But Mr. Long believes the price gains posted yesterday are likely to disappear once all the excitement over the Shearson Lehman-Nippon Life deal fades .
ChemLawn rose 2 3/8 to 34 1/8 in OTC trading .
Waste Management is prepared to raise its bid for ChemLawn to $ 33 a share from $ 27 if the company is willing to negotiate a two-step merger plan .
ChemLawn had rejected a $ 27-a-share offer as inadequate .
Waste Management rose 1 1/2 to 76 3/8 .
Another OTC stock , AmeriTrust , rose 1 3/4 to 53 1/4 .
The company proposed a 2-for-1 stock split and boosted its quarterly dividend .
An investor group led by Equitable Bancorp Chairman Alfred Lerner said Monday that it holds a 9.6 % stake in AmeriTrust .
GenCorp continued to advance , gaining 2 1/2 to 109 in active trading .
It soared 16 Wednesday .
A partnership affiliated with AFG Industries and Wagner & Brown has launched a surprise tender offer at $ 100 a share .
Stars-to-Go sprinted ahead 1 to 18 1/2 in OTC trading .
The company signed a contract to install its video rental program with Convenient Food Mart , a chain of about 1,320 franchised convenience stores .
It signed a similar agreement with Circle K last week .
Pennzoil fell 1 1/8 to 80 5/8 .
Texaco is asking an appeals court to order a new trial in its litigation with Pennzoil , claiming that Pennzoil did n't file a court-ordered reply to a Texas appeals court that slightly reduced the multibillion-dollar judgment awarded to Pennzoil by a lower court jury .
Texaco 's stock eased 1/8 to 35 3/8 .
Other oil issues pared early losses , just as crude oil prices moved off their lows late in yesterday 's futures trading session .
Colonial Municipal Income Trust , an initial offering of a closed-end mutual fund , was the Big Board 's most-active issue , with more than 3.1 million shares changing hands .
The shares were originally offered at $ 10 and closed at that price .
The longest winning streak in college basketball ended after 71 consecutive victories when San Jacinto College lost a crucial tournament game to Midland -LRB- Texas -RRB- College .
It was the first loss in two years for the Running Ravens of San Jacinto and will prevent them from repeating as national junior college champions .
The basketball program at San Jacinto , which relies on talented big-city players declared academically ineligible by major colleges , was the subject of a page one article in Tuesday 's Wall Street Journal .
The 98-93 loss to Midland occurred during the second round of the National Junior College Athletic Association national championship tournament in Hutchinson , Kan .
San Jacinto won its first-round game Tuesday and was favored to continue winning and capture its fourth national championship in five years .
However , the basketball careers -- and college educations -- of San Jacinto 's three starting sophomores are expected to continue next year at major colleges .
Greg `` Boo '' Harvey , John Hudson and Michael Porter all are planning to complete requirements for their junior college degrees this spring , which will make them academically eligible to accept scholarship offers from major universities .
Repligen Corp. said it plans to file an application with the Food and Drug Administration to begin clinical tests on humans of a vaccine against acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
Repligen shares soared 28 % in national over-the-counter trading yesterday , closing at $ 26 , up $ 5.75 .
The maker of biochemical products for industrial markets is set to file the application with the agency in midsummer .
Repligen said it would like to begin testing the vaccine on humans during the fall , if it receives FDA approval .
The company is apparently only the second concern to seek consent to begin testing an AIDS vaccine in humans .
On Wednesday , Bristol-Myers Co. said its Oncogen subsidiary plans to file a similar application with the FDA shortly , also requesting consent to begin testing an AIDS vaccine in humans .
Repligen said its AIDS vaccine is a collaborative effort with the National Cancer Institute and Duke University Medical School .
Israel said it will downgrade its ties , especially military , with South Africa , apparently in response to U.S. demands that it review its policy toward Pretoria .
The lower-profile policy , which includes a promise not to conclude any fresh defense contracts and to reduce cultural and tourism links , was decided Wednesday night by the inner cabinet of 10 senior Israeli ministers and confirmed yesterday in the Knesset , Israel 's parliament , by Foreign Minister Shimon Peres .
The policy switch appears motivated more by a desire to placate Washington than a belief that it will help end white domination in South Africa .
`` We shall gradually reduce our relationship with South Africa following policies that other democratic countries pursue , '' Mr. Peres said in speech .
He stressed that while Israel unreservedly condemned racism in South Africa , it could `` not lead and we are not going to lead a world policy toward South Africa .
At the same time we are not going to remain outside of a world policy as it is formulated by -LCB- democratic -RCB- countries . ''
Israeli leaders apparently recognize that their previous statements denouncing apartheid on moral grounds no longer suffice and that the receipt of valuable military aid from the U.S. could be in jeopardy because of a State Department report , due April 1 , that is expected to name Israel as a major exporter of weapons to South Africa .
That would put Israel on the spot ; under terms of the congressional Anti-Apartheid Act of October 1986 , countries that sell weapons to South Africa stand to forfeit U.S. aid .
Israel , the largest recipient of U.S. aid , receives $ 1.8 billion in military assistance out of an overall annual military aid package of $ 3 billion .
`` We have taken U.S. opinion into account , '' Mr. Peres told the Knesset .
`` We simply cannot afford the risk of another wrangle with Washington at this time , '' one official said in an indirect reference to the strained relations over the Iran-arms scandal , in which Israel played a part , and the recent sentencing of U.S. Navy intelligence analyst Jonathan Jay Pollard as an Israeli spy .
Officials in Pretoria had n't any official comment on the Israeli move , but politicians and commentators said it was understandable , given U.S. pressure on Jerusalem .
`` Israel , like South Africa has been among the pariah nations . . . and whatever military link was forged between the countries was because of this , '' the pro-government Citizen newspaper commented in an editorial .
`` It is vitally important for both South Africa and Israel that they are not estranged from each other because of U.S. blackmail . ''
Because South Africa produces 90 % of its own weapons , Pretoria officials seemed more concerned about a cutoff of nonmilitary Israeli goods than arms , analysts said .
Before Wednesday night 's decision , Foreign Minister Peres had been pushing for Israel to fall into line with Western European states , but both other men in the governing triumvirate -- Prime Minister Yitshak Shamir and Defense Minister Yitshak Rabin -- had argued firmly against a major shift .
Mr. Rabin had been swayed by the arguments of a powerful defense-industry lobby , which maintained that thousands of jobs could be lost if defense contracts were summarily curtailed .
Needing to make its home-based arms industry economically viable , Israel has long adopted the approach of selling arms to any government that wanted them .
Consequently , arms exports amount to more than $ 1 billion annually .
But Mr. Rabin and Mr. Shamir lined up with Mr. Peres in Wednesday night 's decision , with only Ariel Sharon , the former defense minister and currently industry and trade minister , arguing against sanctions .
`` American attitudes , especially given the mood in wake of the Pollard sentencing , weighed heavily with both Shamir and Rabin '' one cabinet source observed .
The new policy is n't clearly delineated .
It stipulates that no new defense contract will be signed .
But Mr. Peres refused to respond to reporters ' questions on how long existing arms-export contracts with South Africa will run .
Military censorship precludes mention of the precise amounts involved in such defense contracts or what they involve .
But foreign estimates say that existing arms contracts with South Africa are worth between $ 200 million and $ 500 million annually and involve the transfer of technology more than weapons .
In the Knesset , Mr. Peres rejected as `` baseless slanders '' a claim by a Communist member about alleged Israel-South African cooperation in the production of nuclear weapons .
The government also would n't elaborate on any other sanctions that will be instituted .
But officials say they probably will involve limiting trading , cultural and scientific ties .
An important element of the trade relationship is coal .
Israel imports $ 112 million worth of South African coal annually for its electricity-generating plants .
But Mr. Peres said coal from China could be subsitituted for the South African coal .
Energy Secretary John Herrington said his proposal to restore a tax break for domestic oil and gas producers is limited in scope and would cost the Treasury much less than earlier estimates have indicated .
In a news briefing , Mr. Herrington said that `` a reasonable '' proposal to restore the oil-depletion allowance would involve only new oil wells and wells using `` enhanced recovery '' methods to get oil that is particularly hard to extract .
He said this limited 27.5 % annual depletion allowance , which excludes old wells , would cost the Treasury $ 200 million in net tax revenue each year .
He said other estimates , ranging from $ 2 billion in a recent Department of Energy report to $ 7 billion in industry estimates , were too high .
One department official said an explanation for the difference in the estimates may be that Mr. Herrington was using a net figure , taking into account that increasing domestic production would generate other taxable revenue , rather than the gross cost of the depletion allowance .
Mr. Herrington said the depletion allowance is just one of several options -- aimed at increasing domestic oil production and reducing imports -- that may be discussed at a White House domestic policy meeting today .
He said that although the White House was `` cool '' to the idea of altering tax laws after last year 's big tax bill , an Energy Department report released this week may force the Reagan administration and Congress to look at the proposal seriously .
The report said that increased reliance on oil imports presents a threat to U.S. national security interests .
The oil-depletion allowance permitted companies to deduct 27.5 % of the value of oil produced from wells until 1975 .
Major oil companies lost the break in 1975 , and the allowance for independent producers has fallen to 15 % since then .
Dorsey Corp. said it completed the sale of substantially all the assets of its cargo trailer manufacturing subsidiary to Trailer Acquisition Corp. in a transaction valued at about $ 25 million .
Terms included payment in cash , subordinated notes and Trailer Acquisition equity securities with a total value about equal to the book value of the assets sold , the plastics and restaurant concern said .
Trailer Acquisition stockholders include a former Dorsey vice president and several executives of the trailer manufacturing unit , Dorsey Trailers Inc. , the company said .
Dorsey Corp. said it will use proceeds to pay debt .
The company said the sale will allow it to concentrate on the `` aggressive pursuit of opportunities in plastic packaging . ''
Consumer prices in Sweden increased 3.4 % in February from a year earlier and 0.3 % from January , Statistics Sweden said .
Spanish consumer prices increased 6 % in January from a year earlier , the National Institute of Statistics said .
The number of French business failures stood at a seasonally adjusted 2,631 in February , down from 2,918 a year earlier but up from 2,367 in January , the National Statistics Institute said .
Initial claims for regular state unemployment benefits fell to a seasonally adjusted 340,000 during the week ended March 7 from 373,000 the previous week , the Labor Department said .
The number of people receiving regular state benefits in the week ended Feb. 28 increased to a seasonally adjusted 2,507,000 , or 2.6 % of those eligible , from a revised 2,477,000 the previous week , when the insured unemployment rate was the same .
Counting all state and federal benefit programs , the number of people receiving unemployment benefits in the week ended Feb. 28 fell to 3,195,500 from 3,230,100 a week earlier .
These figures are n't seasonally adjusted .
Canadian retail sales totaled a seasonally adjusted $ 11.98 billion -LRB- Canadian -RRB- in January , down 0.1 % from December 's level of $ 11.99 billion , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , said .
The slight decline reverses the trend of the previous two months , when sales rose an average 0.6 % a month , the agency said .
Australian gross domestic product rose a seasonally adjusted 1.1 % in the second quarter ended Dec. 31 from the fiscal first quarter , the Bureau of Statistics said .
GDP , which measures a nation 's output of goods and services , minus foreign income , also rose 1.1 % from the year before .
Italy 's official reserves , mainly gold and convertible foreign currencies , rose to the equivalent of $ 50.73 billion in February from $ 47.67 billion at the end of January , the Bank of Italy said .
Italy 's balance of payments , which measures all flows of funds into and out of the country , swung to a surplus in February equivalent to $ 1.12 billion from a deficit a year earlier of $ 1.21 billion , the Bank of Italy said .
Independence Bancorp Inc. said it completed its merger with Third National Bank & Trust Co. of Scranton , Pa. .
Under terms of the agreement , Independence will exchange 4.06 of its common shares for each of Third National Bank 's 387,541 shares outstanding .
Short interest rose on both the New York and American stock exchanges in the month ended March 13 .
Big Board short interest rose 2.5 % , or 11,203,287 shares , to 459,393,918 shares .
A year earlier , short interest was 318,624,104 shares .
Big Board short interest set a record in the month ended last Nov. 14 of 469.1 million shares .
The American Stock Exchange said short interest rose 4.3 % , or 1,359,233 shares , to 32,772,671 shares from a revised 31,413,438 shares .
A year earlier , short interest was 24.9 million shares .
Amex short interest reached a record 37.2 million shares in the month ended last July 15 .
A short sale is the sale of borrowed stock .
While a substantial short position reflects heavy speculation that a stock 's price will decline , some investors consider an increase in short interest bullish because the borrowed shares eventually must be repurchased .
The seller in a short sale expects a price decline that would enable the purchase of an equal number of shares later at a lower price for return to the lender .
The short interest is the number of shares that have n't been purchased for return to lenders .
Fluctuation in short interest of certain stocks also may be caused partly by arbitrage .
In a major method of securities arbitrage , a profit can be made when a company 's stock is to be exchanged for that of another , or for a new issue , in a proposed merger .
The profit opportunity arises when the stocks sell at disparate prices .
An arbitrager may make a per-share profit by buying stock of one company involved in the prospective merger and selling short the stock of the other .
A number of utility stocks recorded some of the highest percentage gains in short interest last month .
Short interest in Carolina Power & Light Co. , for instance , rose ninefold .
Other utilities with high percentage increases in short interest include Tucson Electric Power Co. , Kansas Gas & Electric Co. , Pennsylvania Power & Light Co. and Idaho Power Co. .
Utilities have been underperforming the stock market lately , notes Philip B. Erlanger , chief technical analyst at Advest Inc. , a Hartford , Conn.-based brokerage firm .
`` That 's what I call smart shorting , '' Mr. Erlanger said .
Short-sellers in American Motors Corp. might not be feeling so brilliant .
The company had the month 's highest short interest volume -- 12 million shares .
Chrysler Corp. recently agreed to buy American Motors for about $ 4 a share .
The level of negative betting increased last month , despite the bull market .
The Big Board short interest ratio was 2.61 times average trading volume , compared with the previous month 's 2.22 .
Adjusted to remove issues that are subject to arbitrage and examining those issues that are fully `` at risk , '' the ratio for the period rose to 1.66 times average daily trading volume from 1.46 last month .
The adjusted ratio is designed to reflect the degree of pessimism in the short interest figures .
The increase in short interest while stock prices are also rising `` gives the stock market a strong base , '' Mr. Erlanger says .
`` Euphoria is n't a problem .
It 's the quintessence of a healthy market . ''
Domtar Inc. said it plans to seek shareholder approval at its annual meeting , scheduled April 29 , of a 2-for-1 stock split .
Domtar , a pulp and paper and construction materials concern that has 43 million shares outstanding , said the split , if approved , would take effect May 14 .
Separately , Domtar said it launched an offering in Canada of a $ 100 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- offering of 24-year debentures through lead underwriter Levesque Beaubien Inc. .
The 10 % debentures are priced at 99.75 to yield 10.03 % annually .
Domtar said proceeds will be used for its capital spending program .
AmSouth Bancorp. said the Federal Reserve Board approved its previously reported acquisition of First Tuskaloosa Corp. , Tuscaloosa , Ala. , for stock valued at $ 105.6 million .
The bank holding concern said the approval was the final regulatory step necessary to complete the acquisition .
The transaction will close April 17 , the company said .
Terms call for First Tuskaloosa shareholders to receive AmSouth stock valued at $ 66 for each of their First Tuskaloosa shares , AmSouth said .
Telecom Plus International Inc. said the closing of the sale of most of its operating assets to Siemens AG , of West Germany , originally scheduled for last Monday , has been delayed to give attorneys for the two concerns more time to complete documents .
Telecom , a supplier and servicer of telecommunications systems , said it expects the $ 165 million transaction to close next week .
After a six-month delay , Mexico is expected today to sign a $ 7.7 billion loan accord with most of its 450 foreign creditor banks .
Terms of the agreement were settled last fall , but the signing was delayed by wrangling among the banks .
Such haggling is likely to change the way new bank loans are made to distressed big debtor countries .
Several smaller banks were reluctant to lend more money to Mexico because they consider the country a poor credit risk .
Some creditor banks still are n't committed to the Mexican loan , and the loan books will remain open for several more weeks .
During the past few days , senior officials of BankAmerica Corp. , Citicorp and other big banks have been telephoning many small banks , trying to persuade them to lend the last $ 100 million of the loan package .
Because of these difficulties , such loans may be structured differently in the future , to get a broader consensus among banks and to offer them lending options .
The bank advisory committee system -- used in major country debt agreements since 1982 -- is n't working well and also could be modified , many bankers and debt negotiators say .
Under that system , a group of about 10 or 12 of the biggest bank lenders negotiate an agreement with the borrowing country , and then get other creditor banks to ratify it .
`` I think there are ways this -LCB- process -RCB- can be speeded up , by giving banks more options so they do n't all have to participate in exactly the same fashion , '' said Mark Walker , a partner at the New York law firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton and an adviser to Mexico .
He says new ways must be found to improve the consensus among bank lenders .
Many bankers agree .
`` I think there are some indications there could be a change in the process ; people are exasperated this -LCB- Mexican loan -RCB- has taken as long as it has , '' said a senior banker at a major U.S. money-center bank who requested anonymity .
Another U.S. banker who also sits on an advisory committee questioned the present committee system : `` The Russian slang word for committee roughly translates into a dog with four hind legs , '' he said .
The $ 7.7 billion of loans to Mexico have a maturity of 12 years .
They include $ 6 billion in new loans and $ 1.7 billion of contingency loans .
The contingency loans include $ 500 million to be lent if Mexican economic growth slumps and $ 1.2 billion to be lent if Mexican export receipts fall dramatically .
All $ 7.7 billion carries an interest-rate margin of 13/16 percentage point over the cost of funds .
Banks contribute to such new loans for distressed debtors according to the percentage of a country 's debt they held when its debt difficulties arose .
Argentina is the next challenge .
Its major bankers probably soon will start cajoling the country 's 360 foreign creditor banks to contribute to about $ 1.5 billion in new loans .
But big banks and the Argentines are wary about the time this may take .
`` It 'll probably be sometime between July and September before we get the money we need for this year , '' says Jose Luis Machinea , the Argentine central bank governor .
The banks and the Argentines therefore are discussing possible ways to get quicker commitments from many smaller creditor banks .
The Argentines have estimated that 96 of their foreign creditor banks hold a total of only 1 % of the country 's $ 34.4 billion foreign bank debt .
The country 's total foreign debt , including money owed to other governments and international agencies , is $ 49.8 billion , according to Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. .
RIO DE JANEIRO , Brazil -- The chief foreign debt negotiator at the Brazilian central bank , Antonio de Padua Seixas , has asked to resign , but it 's not clear whether his request will be accepted .
Sources close to the bank said the bank 's governor , Francisco Gros , was trying to persuade Mr. Seixas to remain in his post .
But Mr. Seixas , unhappy with Brazil 's debt moratorium and particularly with the scant contacts with international banks since then , seemed determined to leave .
An experienced negotiator and a friend of Fernao Bracher , the former central bank governor , Mr. Seixas is widely respected among New York bankers .
His departure would probably accentuate the widespread sense among these bankers that no accord to end the Brazilian moratorium is likely to be found soon .
Maybe Benedict Arnold was n't such a bad guy after all .
Sure , he plotted to sell out West Point to the enemy back in 1780 and then set fire to New London , Conn. .
But maybe he has been misunderstood all these years .
Then again , maybe he has n't been .
But a dedicated band of Arnold buffs think so anyway .
They make pilgrimages to the sites of his battlefield triumphs and prowl musty libraries for their hero 's artifacts , but they are n't making much headway .
Defending Benedict Arnold `` is like trying to redeem Genghis Khan , '' says William Stanley , a stockbroker who comes from Arnold 's hometown of Norwich , Conn. .
It is hard to love a traitor , especially one as obnoxious as Benedict Arnold .
A short , vain man with a hawk nose and an explosive temper , the Revolutionary War general was quick to take offense -- he fought three duels -- and was obsessed with money .
He also ratted to the British on his friend George Washington , nearly causing his capture .
But Arnold also was one of America 's greatest warriors .
He saved the Colonies three times from British assaults , built the first American fleet and trekked through the Maine wilderness to invade Canada .
He was shot twice in the left leg and limped in pain until his death .
`` There 's no doubt Arnold was a traitor , '' says Willard Wallace , an Arnold biographer .
`` But there 's also no doubt he was a bloody , blooming hero . ''
Vincent Lindner , a narrator of industrial films , is one of Arnold 's most loyal defenders .
Mr. Lindner lives in a drafty 1770 farmhouse in Scotch Plains , N.J. , that boasts three Benedict Arnold portraits and a Benedict Arnold flag .
He prints Benedict Arnold stamps and has handed out Arnold Society cards that read , `` Dedicated to the belief that Major General Benedict Arnold was a loyal , dedicated officer . ''
In 1973 , Mr. Lindner petitioned the Pentagon to reopen a court-martial conviction of Arnold for misuse of public property .
`` It was a smear job , '' he says .
The Army quickly dismissed his plea , but that has n't slowed him down .
He paid $ 1,600 to install a stained-glass window honoring Arnold in the London church where the general is buried , and now he is finishing a novel , called `` The Diogenes Project , '' about the court-martial .
Mr. Lindner says he plans to sue the Army for Arnold 's back pay -- a sum he reckons is worth slightly more than $ 1 billion now .
Asked for comment on the activities of Mr. Lindner and other Arnold buffs , a Pentagon spokesman jokingly replies : `` Have you tested these people for sanity ? ''
Rejection is a way of life for Arnold 's army .
George Estee , a retired Dover , N.H. , security guard , spent seven years compiling a petition to pardon Arnold , which he says President Carter returned `` without a word . ''
Billy Menna , the mayor of Ansonia , Conn. , several years ago planned to have Arnold 's remains shipped to Connecticut from London , but he dropped his quest after complaints by residents of New London , which Arnold burned to the ground in 1781 .
Audrey Wallace , a retired New York Racing Association office worker , is having better luck .
She and a distant Arnold relative in Britain expect to win approval from the Westminster City Council this spring for a historical marker on Arnold 's London home .
Miss Wallace , who lives down the road from Arnold 's greatest battlefield victory , in Saratoga , N.Y. , says she has traveled to England 15 times largely to do research on Arnold .
A few years back , she even had tea in Arnold 's old study -- then an apartment rented by an Indian couple .
Now Miss Wallace is hard at work on an Arnold biography , and she has compiled an inch-thick chronology of Arnold 's daily activities .
`` If I want to know where he was any day of his life , I flip through it , '' she says .
Arnold 's foremost act of treason was scheming to deliver his command at West Point to the British for the equivalent of $ 500,000 .
But his plot was foiled by American highwaymen who captured a British spy carrying plans for West Point 's fortifications , plans that Arnold had provided .
Realizing that his scheme would soon be uncovered , Arnold fled his West Point home minutes before George Washington was due for breakfast .
After serving as a British officer for the duration of the Revolution , Arnold made his way to London .
Later he founded trading businesses in the Canadian wilderness and the West Indies .
While on a trading mission in Guadeloupe , he was captured by the French during a dispute with the British ; he escaped by bribing his guards and rowing through shark-infested waters .
He died at age 60 , heavily in debt and suffering from asthma and edema .
Most historians attribute Arnold 's treachery to greed and jealousy ; throughout his career , less competent officers were promoted over him .
But to his defenders , that is only part of the story .
They say Arnold feared that the French would invade if the Colonies defeated Britain .
They claim that his second wife was a British spy who seduced him for the British .
And they add that he was justified in trying to end an unpopular war .
`` It was like Vietnam , '' says Mr. Lindner .
Even Ronald Arnold , Benedict 's great-great-great-grandson , does n't buy such arguments .
Mr. Arnold , a school administrator in Peace River , Alberta , Canada , named his son John Benedict Arnold . -LRB- Thirteen-year-old John Benedict says he considers his middle name `` kind of neat '' and especially good for shocking history teachers . -RRB-
But as for his infamous ancestor , Mr. Arnold says simply , `` The man was guilty as hell . ''
So far , Benedict Arnold 's hometown of Norwich has n't taken its native son to heart , either .
His only preserved possessions are a key to his house and a half-foot section of banister .
The city also refused to buy the site of Arnold 's homestead when it went on the market a few years ago .
Instead , a retired policeman bought the property and built a ranch house with yellow aluminum siding and fake brown shutters .
But a few people in Norwich think Arnold got a raw deal .
Mr. Stanley , the stockbroker , is one of them .
He works out of his basement , which is outfitted with a computer terminal , ticker tape , two Benedict Arnold portraits and a proclamation by Arnold explaining why he defected to the British .
As a high-school student , Mr. Stanley says , he was suspended for two days for writing a paper celebrating Arnold as `` the most important American who ever lived . ''
Now 57 , a bulky man with ruddy skin and a full head of white hair , Mr. Stanley looks more like Tip O' Neill than Benedict Arnold .
Even so , he has portrayed Arnold twice on local television and figures he has given 150 talks on Arnold around Connecticut .
`` You 'd swear Benedict Arnold came out of the grave and occupied Bill Stanley 's body , '' says Joseph Levanto , the superintendent of Mr. Stanley 's old high school .
Resurrected or not , Mr. Stanley is a good PR man for Arnold .
He inspired Claude Pelanne , a Boston television producer , to pitch a TV miniseries on Arnold 's life to WCVB in Boston . -LRB- WCVB has n't decided yet whether to proceed . -RRB-
Now Mr. Stanley and Mr. Levanto are hopeful that Norwich can be persuaded to build a statue to Arnold in its renovated harbor area .
`` Up in Salem they honor witches , '' Mr. Levanto reasons .
`` Why can n't we honor Benedict Arnold ? ''
While college students flock to Ft .
Lauderdale , Fla. , for spring break , swinging robins head north to Community College of Beaver County , Pa. .
For the past week , dozens of robins have been bellying up to branches of a half-dozen flowering plum trees in the campus courtyard , downing wrinkled , fermented plums .
And getting drunk .
`` They 're staggering around , flying into windows and diving into the ground , '' says John Rizzo , vice president of business affairs at the Monaca , Pa. , campus .
But `` we have n't seen any ice packs for their heads , yet . ''
Some administrators , noting that the same thing happened last spring , are pushing for a Diving Under the Influence law .
So far , none of the robins are flying upside down , but a couple have fallen from their perch in the trees .
That does n't stop the party , though ; they simply eat the plums on the ground .
Mr. Rizzo says someone threw bread out to the birds , hoping it might soak up the alcohol in their tiny bodies .
The bread is still there , untouched .
Experts say birds do n't seem to suffer any physiological problems when they tie one on . -LRB- `` None of them have bad livers as far as I know , '' says Lindsay Clack , an aviculturist at the Pittsburgh Aviary . -RRB-
The main problems seem to be smashing into windows or landing on the ground beak first .
The tipsy birds may also fall victim to a curious cat or hungry hawk .
But once the fruit is gone , the problem is gone .
`` It 's like people who get smashed once a year on New Year 's Eve , '' says Paul Zeph of the Atlantic region of the National Audubon Society .
Adds Kenneth Parkes , senior curator of birds at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History : `` They pull out of it the same way humans do . ''
Still every spring , when hungry flocks return north to find overly ripe berries and fruits left from last autumn , ornithologists receive reports of drunken birds falling off fence posts .
The most vulnerable are the fruit-eating robins and waxwings .
Mr. Zeph says he gets calls from worried but amused bird lovers with fruit trees or grape vines in their backyards .
`` It 's a riot to watch , '' Mr. Zeph says .
`` A lot of people look forward to it .
It 's like an annual event . ''
But Mr. Clack , the aviculturist , does n't see what all the fuss is about .
A native of fruit-laden Australia , he says parrots there get drunk all the time .
`` I found a parrot comatose once , '' he says .
U.S. farmers and farmland investors looking for a lift in wheat prices this year will n't get any help from Moscow .
The Soviet Union , usually the second-largest purchaser of U.S. farm products after Japan or the Common Market , is likely to continue to shun U.S. grain markets in coming months , further depressing wheat prices , grain merchants and economists say .
Despite a flurry of rumors that sparked a recent surge in wheat futures prices , many experts say the Soviets are n't likely to reenter U.S. grain markets on a large scale this spring .
Their absence may contribute to futures price declines of as much as 24 % to 31 % by July , says Richard Loewy , an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. in New York .
A near-record harvest has curtailed the Soviets ' overall import needs .
And they 've already bought much of the grain they require from other countries -- at prices far below those offered in the U.S. .
In fact , many expect the Soviets to violate their long-term grain agreement with the U.S. for the third year in a row .
The agreement requires Moscow to purchase at least 8.5 million metric tons of U.S. grain and soybeans annually , including a minimum of four million metric tons each of wheat and corn .
The Soviets may buy the required amount of corn by the Sept. 30 deadline ; Washington confirmed a purchase of 1,250,000 metric tons yesterday , bringing total Soviet purchases so far this season to 2,250,000 metric tons .
But , barring a U.S. offer to subsidize wheat sales , the Soviets are likely to turn their backs entirely on U.S. wheat , most analysts and economists say .
That would be bad news for U.S. farmers and policy-makers , who in the past decade became increasingly dependent on Soviet purchases as other markets dried up .
Moscow 's foray into world grain markets in the 1970s touched off a boom in East-West commerce that peaked two years ago , when the Soviets purchased a record $ 2.7 billion of U.S. grain .
That year , 17 % of all U.S. wheat exports and roughly one-third of all U.S. corn exports were bound for Soviet ports .
Largely because of the Soviets ' recent absence , U.S. wheat exports so far this year are lagging 19 % behind last year 's dismal level .
Of course , the Soviets have surprised U.S. analysts before .
Last month , when some experts had all but given up hope for any sales to Moscow , the Soviets purchased U.S. corn .
It was the first such purchase in nearly a year and sparked the recent spate of rumors .
Many do think that the Soviets would buy U.S. wheat if they were offered subsidies under the U.S. 's export-enhancement program , and industry and congressional leaders have been pushing for such an offer .
But the administration , still smarting from the Soviets ' rebuff of a similar subsidy offer last fall , has resisted making a new one .
`` I 'm very discouraged about Soviet-American relations .
I do n't think they 're going to be buying , '' says John Chrystal , an Iowa banker who has advised the Soviets on agriculture for 25 years .
Barring a subsidy offer , U.S. wheat prices simply are n't competitive , most experts say .
In recent months , Argentine wheat has been selling for as much as 25 % less than U.S. wheat , the Agriculture Department says .
`` Why -LRB- should the Soviets -RRB- pay more for U.S. wheat when they can go someplace else ? '' asks John Urbanchuk of Wharton Econometric Forecasting Associates .
Moreover , recent policy changes and technological improvements have slashed Soviet grain import needs some 13 % this year , the Agriculture Department says .
In 1985 , the Soviets began a major push to better coordinate the use of fertilizer , chemicals and equipment on their best land .
Partly because of that push , last year 's grain crop was the best in eight years .
The Soviets are also making better use of forage grasses , thereby reducing their need for imported livestock feeds , experts say .
`` We 've seen livestock numbers increase faster than feed demand has increased .
It 's an indication that they 're using things other than wheat and coarse grains , '' says Mr. Urbanchuk .
Such policy changes may slash future Soviet demand for grains , casting another shadow on the U.S. 's long-term export outlook .
Some grain merchants predict total Soviet grain imports over the next five years will hover around 25 million metric tons -- well below their average over the last decade .
And , barring catastrophe , they are likely to turn to the U.S. as little as possible , analysts say .
`` I do n't think we 're even the residual supplier any more , '' says Laurie Law , a Soviet analyst with E.F. Hutton & Co. in New York .
`` We 're the supplier of last resort . ''
Stockholders of some major corporations may find a new item on the agenda for this spring 's annual meetings -- a management proposal to give stock options to outside directors .
So far , perhaps only 5 % of large firms pay outside directors partly with stock options or other equity grants , says Peter Chingos , a principal at accountants Peat , Marwick , Mitchell & Co. .
But he and others say that such sweeteners , which come on top of the cash retainers and daily allowances non-employee directors usually get for attending board and committee meetings , are a growing trend .
`` Many companies are looking for more innovative ways to attract good talent to their boards , '' says a spokesman for Data General Corp. , a Westboro , Mass. , computer company that introduced stock grants for outside directors three years ago .
Adds a spokesman for Monsanto Co. , a St. Louis-based chemicals and pharmaceuticals company that also adopted an equity plan for outside directors in 1984 : `` There 's been a recognition generally in management circles that it 's a good idea for directors to have a financial stake in the corporation .
This is one way of doing it . ''
Some investors , however , see cause for concern .
Although they support the idea in principle , they say stockholders could end up paying too much for board members at a time when certain holders are already being forced to give up some prerogatives .
Under new laws that limit directors ' liability , shareholders of companies based in Delaware and some other states have lately forfeited their right to sue directors for some forms of negligence .
Jamie Heard , deputy director of the Investor Responsibility Research Center in Washington , says a few plans have been too generous .
A good plan can help align `` directors ' economic interests with those of stockholders , '' he says .
But with `` give aways , '' such as stock options at below-market discounts , directors profit whether or not the company prospers .
Greta Marshall , investment manager of the California Public Employees Retirement System , which has most of its $ 42 billion in publicly traded securities , says she would question `` the true independence of directors when they 're receiving sizable benefits and perks from the very management they 're supposed to be overseeing . ''
Some investors also say that giving significant equity to outside directors could reduce some companies ' per-share profits and , thus , lower the prices of their stocks .
But to date , at least , the small amounts of stock involved causes only minimal shareholder dilution at companies with several million shares outstanding .
Equity awards for outside directors may include options on a few thousand company shares , a similar amount of restricted stock or stock-appreciation rights -- so-called `` phantom '' shares , which let holders participate in any capital gain in the company 's stock without actually owning it .
Typically , the awards are granted when the outsider joins the board and can be exercised upon departure .
If there is a takeover , however , most plans vest outsiders immediately .
Some companies also give annual awards .
At Monsanto , for example , non-employee board members get $ 5,000 of restricted stock each year , along with a $ 20,000 cash retainer and $ 1,000 for each meeting they attend .
The company plans to double the stock award this year . -LRB- While most companies have put the issue to a shareholder vote , Monsanto will n't -- saying it is n't legally required to do so . -RRB-
Will the promise of bargain equity cause reluctant outsiders to rush to the boardroom ?
Vernon Jordan , a Washington lawyer who serves on the boards of eight major corporations -- including the publisher of this newspaper , Dow Jones & Co. , which does n't have such a plan , and Corning Glass Works , which does -- thinks the answer is no .
`` People who care about being a director are n't going to make a decision one way or another based on whether the company gives them restricted stock , '' he says .
Still , such plans can be attractive for outsiders , says New York lawyer Frederick Bruenner , a director of National Distillers & Chemical Corp. , another company that gives equity to non-employee directors .
The plans `` are a good way to compensate directors whose duties clearly have expanded over the years in terms of the level of care required and their exposure to this litigious society , '' he says .
NORTH CAROLINA FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSSOCIATION -LRB- Charlotte , N.C. -RRB- -- J. Graham Harwood , chief executive officer , was elected to the additional post of chairman .
The position had been vacant .
The thrift also said R. Martin Hall , former executive vice president and chief lending officer , was elected president , chief operating officer and a director .
Mr. Hall , 36 years old , succeeds Mr. Harwood , 46 , in the president 's post .
The chief operating officer post is new , the company said .
Mr. Hall 's election to the board filled a vacancy .
McDonnell Douglas Corp. said it received a $ 650 million order from Swissair for six of its MD-11 wide-body jets and options to acquire a dozen more .
The European airline 's decision represents a major victory for the St. Louis-based aircraft maker , which has been trying to build a strong base of orders for the new version of the DC-10 .
It also deals a blow to Airbus Industrie , the European consortium that has been battling McDonnell to stake out the market for a new generation of jumbo jets .
Airbus has n't yet made a final decision whether to build its proposed competitors in that market segment : the A-340 and the A-330 .
A Swissair official said the airline chose the McDonnell jet over its chief Airbus rivals largely because of the MD-11 's earlier delivery date .
He said McDonnell would finish its first Swissair jets in May 1990 , while Airbus 's earliest proposed delivery date is 1992 .
The Swissair official also said the airline was heavily involved in the planning of the MD-11 and that McDonnell had been willing to meet certain specifications that the airline wanted , such as enlarging the plane 's rear cargo door .
The airline intends to use the new MD11 , a long-distance jet , on several of its nonstop international flights , including Chicago to Zurich and Boston to Zurich .
Depending on the seating arrangement , the MD-11 can carry between 276 and 405 passengers as far as 6,600 nautical miles .
Swissair is the fourth airline to sign purchase contracts for the new jets .
McDonnell said it has received orders and options from 17 customers for 119 of the planes .
Although potential purchasers include several large foreign carriers , such as Alitalia , British Caledonian Airways and Scandinavian Airlines System -LRB- SAS -RRB- , McDonnell has yet to land an order from a major U.S. airline -- an accomplishment aircraft analysts believe is critical to the long-term success of the jet .
An Airbus spokesman in Washington said that nine airlines , including Air France and Lufthansa , had made commitments to buy 104 A-330s and A-340s .
The two versions seat between 260 and 330 passengers .
`` We 're sorry to have lost the Swissair sale , '' the spokesman said .
`` It 's a blow , but not a serious enough blow that we will n't launch the aircraft program . ''
Airbus , which is supported by the governments of France , Germany , Spain and the United Kingdom , estimates the A-330/A340 development program will cost $ 2.5 billion .
Airbus and McDonnell both face fierce competition from the industry leader , Seattle-based Boeing Co. Boeing makes the wide-body 747 and 767 models used by several domestic carriers .
It has 85 orders on hand for its two-engine 767-300-ER and 773 orders for all models of its four-engine 747 .
McDonnell shares closed yesterday at $ 78.50 , off 37.5 cents , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
C.W. Strong Jr. , 57 years old , was named president and chief executive officer .
He will succeed Howard L. Elliott , who said he will resign from this real estate investment trust , effective April 10 .
Mr. Elliott , 70 , will remain a trustee .
Mr. Strong was executive vice president of the trust .
Ten days ago , Gary Smith 's nightmare came true .
Mr. Smith , a narcotics detective nearing the end of a six-month undercover operation here , was in a local bar when two men grabbed him and pulled him into the restroom .
`` We 've got some serious problems with you , '' said one man , from whom Mr. Smith had bought marijuana just the week before .
The man accused him of having given secret testimony about local drug dealing to a grand jury , describing in detail testimony that the detective had , in fact , just given .
Mr. Smith strenuously denied it , and managed to get out of the place .
He began sleeping with two loaded pistols by his bed .
Yet , hoping the leak was confined to a narrow circle , he decided to continue infiltrating the local drug culture until the appointed bust .
That was early yesterday .
And though not all went as planned , the operation reached a climax with a 5:30 a.m. series of arrests .
As a confrontation earlier in the night would show , Mr. Smith had stayed under cover until the last possible moment .
Though the war on drugs now often is waged with speedboats , planes and sophisticated tracking devices , its front-line soldiers still are faceless detectives like Mr. Smith .
These are not television cops ; no sound track accompanies a marijuana buy in Mason , Ohio .
Their work , as a week spent with Mr. Smith near the end of the Mason operation shows , involves danger and ethical dilemmas , but it also entails mind-numbing hours of inactivity and humiliating rejections by two-bit dealers they are trying to befriend in pool halls .
`` Undercover work is the most difficult , exposed , dangerous assignment the public asks one of its representatives to take , '' says Peter Bensinger , a former head of the federal Drug Enforcement Agency .
`` It is n't always glamorous , high-tension , high-rolling , high-money transactions .
It is repetitive , dull , tedious and very frustrating . ''
Going undercover also can impose a burden in terms of a detective 's sense of himself .
Outfitted like a deadbeat , he must get used to people subtly reacting to him as such -- to a mother , for instance , holding her children close as he passes by .
He must get used to the constant edginess that threatens to develop into paranoia .
When it all gets to be too much for Mr. Smith , he sometimes stands before a bathroom mirror in his seedy room .
`` I am Gary Smith , '' he says aloud to the scruffy figure peering back .
`` I live in Wisconsin .
I have a wife who loves me , and a house .
I will make it . ''
Mr. Smith 's assignment in this quiet community of 10,000 near Cincinnati began last September .
Town officials , wanting to ferret out drug dealers but mindful that local detectives would be recognizable , hired a detective agency to supply an undercover man at $ 5,000 a month .
That agency , Mr. Smith 's employer , is Professional Law Enforcement Inc. of Dayton , Ohio , one of a growing number of security firms offering such services .
Using the cover of a traveling errand boy for a rich father , Mr. Smith -LRB- his real name -RRB- immersed himself in the town 's drug culture , sharing `` roach clips '' with dealers , courting drug-hungry women and haunting darkened streets and bars into the wee hours .
No one in Mason was told of his identity except the police chief and his two staff detectives .
He fights the drug wars unarmed but well-defended by his wits and a knack for blending in .
A 32-year-old college graduate and former policeman , he looks more like a drifter in his flowing beard , black Panama hat and baggy clothes -- the same ones often worn for days on end .
Anyone can dress the part , but Mr. Smith is blessed with a particularly convincing feature : bad teeth .
The overall effect is unsettling ; `` Gary looks nuts , '' says an agency administrator , Gary Vest .
Mr. Smith likes undercover work because the only thing that counts is results .
He leaves far behind the politics and paper-shuffling that he hated about standard police work .
Still , he lives with some irksome restraints .
Mason 's budget , for example , is so tight approval is needed for any drug buy of over $ 200 .
`` It 's exasperating , '' he says .
`` I mean , we 're never going to stop the flow of drugs at this rate .
I 've got to spend all this time with small buys and second-rate dealers just to have a chance at getting up the ladder . ''
In such an environment , sampling illicit pleasures is also a constant temptation ; last year more than 300 undercover officers nationwide were themselves arrested on drug and other offenses .
Mr. Smith worries about his drinking habits ; to do his job well , he must repeatedly spend long evenings knocking back beers with drug dealers and users .
`` We have to be priests , '' says Mr. Smith , `` yet a sex maniac and a drug addict at the same time . ''
In some ways , working in towns like Mason is more challenging than similar work in , say , New York City .
In New York , a senator seeking to prove a point can buy `` crack '' from strangers on a street corner , but here a detective can buy only from people he has gotten to know .
`` In these small towns , people have known each other practically since birth , '' says Edward Probst , a PLE supervisor .
`` They 've all gone to school together .
It 's tough to infiltrate that . ''
Yet the danger is still there .
The recent murder of a teen-age girl in a Mason park is unsolved but suspected of being drug-related .
Another PLE agent , working in another Ohio town , recently found himself pinned to the ground by a wild-eyed drug dealer with a knife who `` told me if I was a cop I was dead meat . ''
A week in the life of Gary Smith , accompanied by a reporter he introduces as an old friend , illustrates some of the highs and lows of small-town undercover work .
Shortly after 7 p.m. on a freezing night , Gary slides into his black Sunbird and pops a cassette into the tape player .
`` Let 's roll , '' he says , as , to the pulsing sound of the theme from `` Miami Vice , '' he peels out of the gravel parking lot .
Tonight 's focus is a 28-year-old drug user mentioned by several people with whom the detective struck up conversations .
Two nights ago Gary met her by a simple but unorthodox maneuver : He walked to her front door and introduced himself .
Flashing a roll of $ 100 bills seemed to help break the ice .
Through this woman , whom we will call `` Julie , '' Gary has met a dealer from the Cincinnati area , a fast-talking man in his mid-20s whom we will call `` Mike . ''
He has ordered a quarter-ounce of marijuana and some Valium pills , to be delivered this night at the cramped , littered apartment of the woman 's sister and brother-in-law -- across from the Mason police headquarters .
While they wait for the dealer to arrive , Gary and his hosts sip beer and watch Donald Duck cartoons .
Before long `` Mike '' breezes in , a blondbearded young man in a red sweatshirt .
From his wrist hangs a yellow plastic K mart shopping bag filled with Baggies of marijuana and a colorful assortment of pills .
`` Good news , bad news , dude , '' the dealer cheerfully tells Gary .
`` I got the quarter , but I need the V 's for later . ''
Gary hands over $ 35 for a banana-shaped packet of marijuana and arranges to buy the Valium the following week .
No questions , no hassle : the best kind of drug buy .
But now he can n't just walk out ; `` Julie '' and the others expect to get at least a little high .
A joint is rolled and passed around .
And Gary , having asked to buy the dope , can hardly decline it .
This presents several problems .
At least some of the drug must be saved as evidence of the buy , evidence he will turn over to the police as soon as possible .
Moreover , the detective knows that taking drugs , besides violating the law , is against his employer 's policy and a sure way to ruin a case against the dealer .
And it will be known whether he has indulged ; PLE agents must take lie-detector and drug tests after each operation .
So when the joint comes his way , Gary takes the smoke into his mouth without inhaling , the hot fumes rasping at the back of his throat before he slowly exhales .
His reporter friend does the same .
The sister of `` Julie , '' holding a baby in one arm , takes the joint and sucks in deeply .
Thick smoke settles softly over the family 's three sleepy children .
`` I try not to keep much pot around the house , just my personal stash , '' the brother-in-law says between drags .
`` You know , the kids and all . ''
Most undercover operations target neither Colombian drug lords nor Mafia capos , and Gary 's are no exception .
To `` climb the ladder '' to big dealers , detectives have to begin with factory workers , housewives , teen-agers and businessmen -- often family people with sad stories and everyday worries .
Says William Taylor , PLE 's president : `` When the old lady fixes you dinner and you start playing with the kids , that 's when you start feeling a little guilty .
You realize that if you do your job , you 'll break up a family . ''
Few tasks bother Gary more than `` working '' female sources .
`` I love my wife very much , '' he says , before setting out this evening .
`` I could n't do anything out here without her . ''
He goes to great lengths to maintain a healthy marriage ; every Saturday night he begins an 11-hour round-trip drive to his home in Wisconsin .
He returns each Tuesday , locking his life and love in a gray-metal strongbox in the trunk of his car .
Inside the box are police manuals , log books recording his activities , pictures of his wife -- and his wedding ring .
All this weighs on him when , at a raucous bar later this night with `` Julie , '' Gary rests his hand in the small of her back and , in the din from a heavy-metal rock trio , strokes her hair .
She places her hand on his knee .
Driving home , Gary asks the woman to accompany him to Florida in April .
`` I hope we can share it together , '' he says , and the two hold hands above the car 's stick shift .
At evening 's end , he walks her to her front porch .
In the darkness they embrace .
`` You know , '' Gary says , returning to the car , `` in another world , another time , she might have been somebody . ''
After stops at two Mason bars , he returns to his room at 3:30 a.m. , then walks outside to a pay phone to call his wife .
In 20-degree weather , he talks with her for more than an hour .
Five nights later the dealer and a promised Valium buy are nowhere to be found .
The evening seems wasted until `` Julie , '' like some drug-culture Avon lady , volunteers to go door-to-door among friends in search of marijuana .
`` This is the kind of night I love , '' Gary whispers later as she scampers to a door .
`` Look at all the places she 's taking us .
Think of all the people we 'll meet . ''
Only when it seems all the friends will pile into his car at once does the detective get irritated .
`` This is getting to be a three-ring circus , '' he mutters at one stop .
By 10 p.m. he is escorting three self-described potheads to what seems like the 20th Ohio town in search of marijuana .
Finally , a biker in nearby Lebanon provides a quarter-ounce for $ 45 .
It has been a lot of work for such a tiny payoff ; Gary , not having seen the buy occur , can only tip police or hope to buy from the biker later .
Most narcs do n't dwell on the fact that they are n't making much of a dent in the national drug nightmare .
`` Remember , '' Gary says at one point as a drug dealer approaches his car , `` if we do n't make the deal , no one cares .
No one cares at all .
No dope deal is worth getting killed over . ''
After the biker buy , Gary wonders aloud why the other dealer did n't show .
`` He might think you 're a narc , '' says `` Julie '' matter-of-factly .
`` But that 's stupid .
I would n't show no narcs around .
Besides , he has n't known you as long as I have . ''
It has been exactly one week since they met .
A light snow is falling as Gary follows the blue sedan into the bustling streets of nearby Hamilton , Ohio .
There , at the home of one of Mason 's two regular detectives , he updates the town 's police chief .
Gary has been `` under '' so long he has forgotten the chief 's name .
It is James Edwards .
Mr. Edwards smiles as the undercover man reels off names of the dealers he has bought drugs from .
`` You 're leading us into an inner circle we 've been trying to get at for years , '' the chief says .
Peter Schultz , one of the town 's detectives , says , `` We 're not naive enough to think this will end our drug problem , but it 'll make dopers think long and hard the next time they sell another joint . ''
That night Gary and `` Julie '' find their no-show dealer at a Mason house .
He is regaling friends by telling how he supposedly beat drug tests at his workplace by swallowing a mixture of water , fruit juice and aspirin .
Though temporarily `` dry , '' or out of inventory , `` Mike '' agrees to help Gary buy Valium or marijuana from a dealer at a nearby pool room .
Once there , Gary orders a beer , chalks up a cue stick and gets to work .
Between games of eight ball , he disappears outside with the youthful new dealer , returning 10 minutes later with another quarter-ounce of marijuana .
Two hours later , the two again disappear , this time into a dank , concrete-block bathroom , returning minutes later with more marijuana that Gary says is for a friend .
He ducks out a third time to secretly jot down the license plate of the new dealer 's car .
During a fourth trip he sets up a Valium buy with `` Mike . ''
By 2 a.m. the narc and the two young dealers have become pool-playing , back-slapping , beer-drinking buddies .
At one point , as the three lean on their cues between games , snippets of conversation can be heard through the din of a jukebox .
`` We could do it .
We could do it .
He 's cool .
He 's cool . ''
`` Could we really buy a whole ounce ? ''
`` Five-fifty ?
Man , what a price ! ''
`` You 're blowing my mind !
You 're blowing my mind ! ''
By closing time Gary has arranged his biggest deal yet in Mason , agreeing to supply more than $ 500 to help the two young men buy an ounce of cocaine for $ 2,000 .
Smiles abound as the three walk outside into falling snow .
On the drive back to Gary 's tiny room , the car radio blares an anti-drug song called `` Smuggler 's Blues '' :
but someone had to lose .
It 's the nature of the business .
It 's the smuggler 's blues .
Yesterday morning at 5:30 , more than 40 officers from several Ohio law-enforcement groups began arresting some three dozen suspected drug dealers and users named in about 100 indictments -- one indictment for every 100 inhabitants of Mason .
Most were were roused bleary-eyed from their beds .
The arrests climaxed an otherwise dismal night for Mr. Smith and the Mason police .
After two scheduled drug buys had fallen through by 1:30 a.m. , Mason detectives made plans to raid an after-hours party at a local bar , where they hoped to find drugs and maybe `` roll '' some dealers , that is , coax them into cooperating .
But Mr. Smith , inside the bar with another agent , was again heatedly accused of being an undercover agent .
At 2 a.m. , Mason police received an urgent call from his partner .
`` I think you better come get Gary out -- now , '' he said .
Ten minutes later , eight Mason and PLE detectives with pistols drawn burst in and lined up the 25 or so patrons against the bar .
They also arrested and handcuffed Mr. Smith , mindful that blowing his cover now might jeopardize the arrests scheduled for three hours later .
That did n't convince two patrons , who continued to accuse Mr. Smith of being a narc .
So the handcuffed detective suddenly charged one of the men , flailing with his shoulders and kicking until pulled away .
`` I thought someone would stop me , '' Mr. Smith said later , `` so I kicked him . ''
Later yesterday morning , Mr. Smith stood in the Warren County Jail and watched as more than 20 of his drug sources -- among them `` Julie '' -- were brought in in handcuffs .
Many gaped or stared when they saw a badge hanging from Mr. Smith 's neck .
Not one uttered a word .
West German producer prices fell 4.2 % in February from a year earlier and 0.3 % from January , the Statistics Office said .
Canadian steel ingot production totaled 295,107 metric tons in the week ended Saturday , off 0.1 % from the preceding week 's 295,532 tons , Statistics Canada , a federal agency , said .
The latest week 's output was 2.5 % higher than the year-ago level of 287,775 tons .
Federal Express Corp. said its average daily volume of packages and documents rose 26 % in February to 733,750 from 582,300 a year earlier .
The package-delivery concern also said average daily volume for the first nine months of its fiscal year grew 29 % to 678,405 from 527,584 .
Commerce National Bank said its shareholders approved the bank 's sale for about $ 8.5 million to First National Bank of Florida , a unit of Charlotte , N.C.-based First Union Corp. .
Commerce National said the acquisition , which requires regulatory approval , is expected to be completed in the second quarter .
Environmental Systems Co. said talks were ended regarding its possible acquisition of ChemClear Inc. , a Wayne , Pa.-based processor of liquid industrial waste .
Environmental Systems , a processor of toxic wastes , declined to elaborate on why talks broke off .
Last month , ChemClear said it terminated a proposed merger agreement with Zim Energy Corp. , Houston .
Christy W. Bell , ChemClear chairman and chief executive officer , said that both proposals fell through because of `` accounting problems . ''
He also declined to elaborate .
Dynalectron Corp. said its specialty contracting subsidiaries received more than $ 34 million in electrical and mechanical contracts for commercial and industrial projects in the U.S. and Canada .
Deere & Co. said it recalled 350 workers laid off at its East Moline , Ill. , combine plant .
The laborers resumed work this past Monday .
Layoffs have been necessary to curb production and reduce excess inventories brought on by a drop in retail demand , the farm-equipment maker said .
Deere attributed some of the rehiring to the recent 111-day strike by the United Auto Workers , which had helped to reduce inventory of combines at the plant .
But a spokesman for the company said further worker recalls will depend on business conditions and demand in the marketplace .
Currently , the plant has about 2,900 employees .
Kinder-Care Inc. said it expects earnings of about $ 44 million , or 97 cents to $ 1 a share , for 1987 .
The operator of child-care and preschool facilities reported net income of $ 33.3 million , or 75 cents a share , on sales of $ 231.1 million for the year ended Aug. 29 , 1986 .
However , the company has changed its year-end to Dec. 31 .
The company said it expects improved profit in 1987 despite an increase in its effective tax rate to 21 % from 12 % .
Ranco Inc. shareholders approved a previously reported proposal to merge the maker of control devices into Siebe PLC for about $ 150 million .
Under the agreement , Ranco holders will receive about $ 40 a share from Siebe , a United Kingdom-based engineering and safety products concern .
Ranco solicited bids for the company last fall .
Thursday , March 19 , 9 p.m.-midnight EST -LRB- repeated March 20 at 1 a.m. and March 22 at 2:30 p.m. -RRB- , on A&E : `` The Beggar 's Opera . ''
A fascinating production from the tireless Jonathan Miller : John Gay 's 18th-century ballad opera with period instruments , costumes and panache and starring Roger Daltrey , lead singer of the legendary rock group the Who .
Friday , March 20 , 9-11 p.m. EST , on PBS -LRB- check local listings -RRB- : `` Broadway Sings : The Music of Jule Styne . ''
Because it 's pledge season , public TV is dishing out oodles of musical nostalgia .
First this tribute to the composer of `` Gypsy '' and `` Funny Girl . ''
Then `` Mancini and Friends , '' in honor of Henry Mancini , on Saturday , March 21 , 9-11 p.m. EST -LRB- 8-10 p.m. on WNET/Thirteen -RRB- .
Then `` In Performance at the White House : A Tribute to American Music '' saluting Richard Rogers and Lorenz Hart , on Wednesday , March 25 , 8-9 p.m. EST .
Saturday , March 21-Monday , March 30 , various times , on CBS : The grand conclusion of NCAA Basketball : the regional finals , national semifinals , and women 's and men 's championship games .
Saturday , March 21 , 6-6:30 p.m. EST or Sunday , March 22 , 6:30-7 p.m. EST ; on PBS : `` How to Make $ 100 Million With a Fast-Talking Toy . ''
This edition of `` Adam Smith 's Money World '' might be of interest to the whole family ; it takes a hard look at the direction of the high-tech , high-priced toy industry .
Sunday March 22-Tuesday , March 24 , 9-11 p.m. EST , on NBC : `` Nutcracker : Money , Madness , Murder . ''
CBS has already aired a dramatization of the famous case of Frances Schreuder , an heiress who got her disturbed son to kill her miserly father .
Now NBC presents this more lengthy , psychologically probing version , starring Lee Remick .
Sunday , March 22 , 10-11 p.m. EST , on Cinemax -LRB- repeated on March 24 , 26 and 30 -RRB- : `` A Jazz Session -- Sass & Brass . ''
The music series `` Cinemax Sessions '' presents an irresistible jam : Sarah Vaughan singing with Dizzy Gillespie , Chuck Mangione , Maynard Ferguson , Al Hirt , Don Cherry , Herbie Hancock , Ron Carter and Billy Higgins .
Tuesday , March 24 , 9-11 p.m. EST , on CBS : `` A Different Affair . ''
In spite of its feeble -LRB- and misleading -RRB- title , and certain predictable elements , this TV movie does better than most at probing a sensitive subject .
An ambitious career woman takes smug pride in sponsoring a needy 12-year-old boy , but loses it when his neediness invades her tidy life .
Saturday , March 28 , 9:30-10 p.m. EST , on NBC : `` Spitting Image : The 1987 Movie Awards . ''
Once again , those devastating British puppets caricature our poor , defenseless celebrities .
Perfect preparation for Oscar night .
Sundays , March 29-April 26 , 9-10 p.m. EST , on PBS : `` Star Quality . ''
`` Mobil Masterpiece Theatre '' has been offering some disappointing goods lately , if you ask me .
Now , however , it is redeemed by these five adaptations of short stories written by Noel Coward when his own star was in eclipse after World War II .
Some of them flash the old wit , such as the first -- entitled `` Star Quality '' -- about a young playwright 's theatrical debut , as managed by a high-handed director and a prima-donna actress .
Others radiate a new warmth , such as the second -- `` Mr. and Mrs. Edgehill '' -- about a middle-aged , middle-class English couple who finally get to serve the empire : on a remote Pacific island on the eve of World War II .
All are superb .
Monday , March 30 , 9 p.m.-climax , on ABC : `` The 59th Annual Academy Awards . ''
The days of feeling sorry for Steven Spielberg are over .
This year he 's not only nominated , he 's guaranteed an Oscar -- the Irving G. Thalberg Memorial , no less .
Hosting the whole shootin ' match will be Michael Caine , Chevy Chase , Goldie Hawn and Robin Williams .
Tuesday , March 31 , 9-10 p.m. EST , on PBS : `` Street Cop . ''
As an antidote to the dark romanticism and designer violence of today 's TV cop shows , this `` Frontline '' documentary follows a group of Boston plainclothes police officers .
The nitty and the gritty are all too real .
Noble O. Carpenter , currently executive vice president , was named to succeed Oliver W. Birckhead , 64 years old , as president and chief executive officer upon Mr. Birckhead 's retirement Dec. 31 .
The bank holding company did n't name a successor to the 57-year-old Mr. Carpenter , who is also chairman , president and chief executive of Central Trust Co. of Northeastern Ohio , a Central Bancorp. unit .
Victor A. Ricciardelli was named senior vice president for equity operations planning of the futures exchange .
Prior to joining the Chicago Merc , he was senior vice president of market operations and responsible for facilities planning at the American Stock Exchange , New York .
Leo G. Thompson , formerly president of the company 's engine parts division , was named a director of this maker of products used in transportation equipment and fluid power systems , filling a vacancy .
He was also named to the new post of vice president , finance and development .
What on earth is wrong with people ?
What internal and external mechanisms of the most minimal common sense and even self-preservation are lacking in human beings ?
In the late 1970s , in the Main Line suburb of Upper Merion , Pa. , there were many strange people .
One was William Bradfield , a middle-aged teacher at Upper Merion High School .
He was obsessed with Ezra Pound , a Svengali figure to a number of women teachers , and perhaps a bisexual .
He established relationships with a number of weak-willed colleagues , stray particles even in the constrained world of Upper Merion .
He told them about Helen of Troy and about `` The Cantos '' and then he stroked his beard , and they were amazed .
One woman became his live-in girlfriend and turned over practically every cent she had to his fanciful endeavors .
She stayed loyal and devoted to him even after he openly had affairs with other women and with schoolgirls -LRB- although whether any of his affairs went beyond cuddling is not clear -RRB- .
A second strange guy was Jay C. Smith .
Mr. Smith , an `` educator , '' was for a time principal of Upper Merion High School .
According to colleagues and friends , he had the eyes of a goat , and sexual tastes to match .
While he was principal he would sometimes break into the class via the public address to meander through an extemporaneous speech filled with sexual innuendo .
He was a colonel in the U.S. Army Reserve , well read , and might just have murdered his daughter and son-in-law to get their drug rehabilitation checks .
He did dress up like a Brinks guard and rob a Sears store in suburban Philadelphia at Christmas time .
These are the main characters of an extraordinary true story , which the press labeled the Main Line Murders , rendered hypnotically in Joseph Wambaugh 's new book , `` Echoes in the Darkness '' -LRB- Perigord Press/Morrow , 416 pages , $ 18.95 -RRB- .
Unfortunately this is just the beginning of what we learn about Bradfield and Smith .
Most of the rest has to do with their incredibly complex , occluded , and ultimately incriminatory plans to murder Susan Reinert , a pitifully confused woman , and her young children .
How Bradfield and Smith murdered the Reinerts is still unknown .
What is known -- largely as the result of a slogging , tireless quest by a policeman named Jack Holtz who saw the case to its conclusion -- is that they did it for insurance money .
Ms. Reinert , a disciple of Bradfield , apparently believed she and Bradfield were about to be married , and had obtained $ 700,000 of life insurance in his favor .
Bradfield and Smith worked out a cunning but ultimately futile crosslinked set of excuses for one another so that neither would be able to be clearly matched to the time or scene of the crime .
But what is most striking is that all of the people around Bradfield and Smith were almost unbelievably , maddeningly , mind-bogglingly stupid .
Mr. Wambaugh 's work is a peculiarly American variant of Hannah Arendt 's epic about Eichmann in Jerusalem and the banality of evil .
Mr. Wambaugh 's book might well be subtitled `` The Stupidity of Evil . ''
For example , male teachers who were colleagues of Bradfield helped him to hide huge sums of cash , wipe fingerprints off hundred-dollar bills , build silencers for pistols , file serial numbers off guns , and hide typewriters -- always without any good explanation -LRB- as if there were good explanations -RRB- .
Female acolytes , college graduates , helped Bradfield make up excuses for seeing other women , lied to the police about his whereabouts , drove around cars for him without reason , and listened to the most insane drivel as reasons without once noticing -LRB- apparently -RRB- that they were behaving like cattle .
Mr. Wambaugh 's meticulous , spellbinding book tells about people who had gone to college and were trusted to teach the children of the middle class , but who could not sense any danger in a colleague walking around with a silenced pistol , suddenly showing up with sacks of hundred-dollar bills , endlessly telling them that people they knew were about to be murdered .
This is a book about men and women who should have heard wild alarms going off around them , and instead dared to eat a peach , about people who know Ezra Pound but who do not know enough to call the cops .
The beauty of this book lies in Mr. Wambaugh 's deadpan piling on of an unbearable weight of evidence as to just how degenerated we are as people when nuts and killers like Smith and Bradfield can wander among us openly telling us of their plans while we watch like helpless , spotlit deer .
Mr. Wambaugh is furiously angry that people this dumb allowed Karen and Michael Reinert to be killed -LRB- probably brutally -RRB- before they reached age 10 .
He is angry enough to end his book with a shriek -- and an eloquent shriek at that -- about how a new generation just as stupid is already coming along ; a generation that will forget even the lessons of Ms. Reinert and her children .
`` Echoes in the Darkness '' is carefully wrought , important reading by a brilliant and angry man .
By mixing that personal feeling of rage with his always-fluent style and his cop 's powers of detail , he has given us not just a book about a crime , but a dizzying book about who we are as a people .
Mr. Stein is a lawyer , economist and writer in Los Angeles .
ST. JOSEPH LIGHT & POWER CO. said its board approved a 3-for-2 stock split subject to shareholder and Missouri Public Service Commission approval .
Shareholders will vote on the split at the May 20th annual meeting .
The St. Joseph , Mo.-based utility also said it increased its quarterly dividend to 49 cents a share from 47 cents , payable May 18 to stock of record May 4 .
The company , which has about 3.1 million shares outstanding , said the stock split would be payable about nine days after the approvals are received .
PENTAIR INC. is offering two million shares of its $ 1.50 cumulative preferred stock at $ 25 each .
The St. Paul , Minn.-based maker of paper and power tools said the shares are convertible at any time into Pentair common stock at $ 37.875 a share .
The company said the underwriters have been granted an option to buy an additional 200,000 preferred shares to cover over-allotments .
Pentair said proceeds will be used to pay bank debt incurred to finance the acquisition of McNeil Corp. last August .
Kidder , Peabody & Co. is the lead underwriter .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , the company 's common shares closed at $ 30.50 , up 25 cents .
VALLEY FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION -LRB- Van Nuys , Calif. -RRB- -- Michael Laurin , senior executive vice president , chief operating officer and secretary , was elected a director of this thrift .
He fills a vacancy .
EASTERN UTILITIES ASSOCIATES said underwriters led by PaineWebber Inc. are offering one million of its common shares at $ 36.625 each .
The shares were sold through competitive bidding , and Eastern Utilities said that PaineWebber , Prudential-Bache Capital Funding and A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc. were the successful bidders for the shares .
Before the offering , the Boston-based electric utility holding company had about 11.7 million common shares outstanding .
The company said it will use proceeds to reduce or eliminate its short-term debt .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , the company 's common shares closed at $ 36.50 , down 12.5 cents .
The National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. named J. Lynton Jones as its European executive director , heading the association 's first overseas office .
Mr. Jones , 42 years old , formerly head of public affairs for the London Stock Exchange , will be based in London .
`` The increasing involvement of the NASD in the internationalization of the securities markets makes a European office a must for us , '' said Joseph R. Hardiman , chairman of the self-regulatory and lobbying arm of the over-the-counter securities market .
The new office will serve as a liaison with the more than 300 foreign companies that trade over the counter in the U.S. , as well as support domestic member-companies that have operations abroad .
BELL ATLANTIC CORP. increased its quarterly dividend 6.7 % to 96 cents a share from 90 cents , payable May 1 to shares of record March 31 .
The company said the dividend reflects `` our commitment to reducing costs and controlling expenses and our confidence in the region 's strong economic growth . ''
The Bell telecommunications company is based in Philadelphia .
It serves Pennsylvania , New Jersey , Delaware , Maryland , Virginia , West Virginia and Washington , D.C. .
ELDORADO BANCORP declared a 10 % stock dividend payable April 17 to stock of record April 3 .
The Tustin , Calif.-based bank holding company last paid a 10 % stock dividend in May 1986 .
In January , the company began paying a quarterly dividend of five cents a share on its common stock .
Eldorado Bancorp had 1.7 million common shares outstanding Dec. 31 .
An Amoco Corp. unit said it discovered natural gas and condensate in an exploratory well off the east coast of Trinidad .
The well was drilled 39 miles east of Galeota Point in 260 feet of water .
The discovery was in two intervals between 10,000 and 13,000 feet , Amoco Trinidad Oil Co. said .
The total depth of the well is 14,629 feet .
Amoco Trinidad said that in tests of each interval , the well initially flowed at daily rates of 24 million cubic feet of natural gas and 500 barrels of condensate , and 29 million cubic feet of gas and 600 barrels of condensate .
The well was tested at each interval through a 5/8-inch choke .
Amoco is the sole operator of the well .
In composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday , Amoco shares closed at $ 79.50 , unchanged .
MORGAN GRENFELL GROUP PLC said earnings last year climbed 33 % , to the equivalent of $ 88.3 million from $ 66.6 million the year before , spurred by strong results in the first half .
The British merchant-banking group said its earnings growth was led by its corporate finance and asset management operations .
But Morgan Grenfell 's chairman , Lord Catto , called last year 's second half `` the most traumatic period '' in Morgan Grenfell 's 149-year history .
Events during the half led to the resignations of four senior executives and have entangled the bank in an expanding government investigation of Guinness PLC 's $ 3.8 billion takeover of Distillers 's Co. last year .
Grenfell advised Guinness on the successful bid .
The banking group also said it had substantial costs in preparing for London 's Big Bang on Oct. 27 , when securities markets were deregulated .
It said the cost of building up securities operations and systems in response to the Big Bang resulted in related write-offs last year of about $ 24 million .
SONY CORP. , continuing to be hurt by the strong yen , said consolidated earnings slid 59 % in the three months ended Jan. 31 , to the equivalent of $ 50.4 million from $ 123.3 million a year earlier , converting the yen at its current rate .
Sales fell 6.3 % , to $ 2.26 billion from $ 2.41 billion .
The three months were part of a five-month transitional period that marks a change in the Japanese electronics company 's fiscal year .
Sony 's new fiscal year starts April 1 .
Sony officials noted that the yen rose 26 % against the U.S. dollar in the three months from a year earlier .
About 40 % of Sony 's sales are denominated in dollars ; as the Japanese currency rises against the U.S. currency , dollar-denominated sales convert into fewer yen .
If the yen-dollar rate had remained unchanged , the officials said , Sony 's sales would have risen more than $ 263 million in the three months .
In the U.S. , they noted , sales rose 11 % in dollar terms but showed a drop in yen terms .
Perhaps Lee Iacocca should have seen it coming .
Before Henry Ford II fired him as president of Ford Motor Co. in 1978 , Mr. Iacocca should have realized that Donald E. Petersen , then an executive vice president , would eventually grab the top spot at Ford .
The reason ?
Mr. Ford and Mr. Petersen share the same birthday , Sept. 4 .
Mr. Iacocca was born Oct. 15 .
Just a coincidence ?
Not according to James Uffelman , a 43-year-old computer specialist with a theory about corporate succession .
Mr. Uffelman established his theory while developing a line of birthday cards that list birth dates of famous people .
In poring over the 28,000 names in his data base , Mr. Uffelman says he began noticing `` certain trends , '' including the fact that chairmen and their successors often share the same or similar birthdays .
At Du Pont Co. , for example , former chairman Edward G. Jefferson and his predecessor , Irving S. Shapiro , share a July 15 birthday .
At Consolidated Edison Co. of New York , Chairman Arthur Hauspurg 's birthday is just two days before that of his predecessor , Charles F. Luce .
Lynn Palmer , an astrologer and author , says such trends make sense , since companies need leaders with the same `` sun signs '' that influence governing abilities .
Curiously , though , companies where the birthday phenomenon occurs seem blind to its significance and contend that birth dates are meaningless in choosing leaders .
`` At Ford Motor Co. performance is what counts , '' says spokesman Tom Foote .
Birthdays `` have no bearing on management policies for advancement . ''
If the coincidence was acknowledged at all , he says , Messrs .
Ford and Petersen `` probably wished each other happy birthday . ''
At Du Pont , `` the answer is no , '' says spokeswoman Faith Wohl , as to whether the firm uses birthdays in making appointments .
`` We are a scientific company , '' she says .
As for Con Ed , `` All the company wants to say , '' says a spokesman , `` is , we do n't consider the calendar when making executive appointments . ''
Mr. Uffelman , who is president of Technimetrics , a New York data company , says he is n't surprised corporations seem unwilling to consider the merits of his theory .
`` I suppose it really -LRB- would be -RRB- on the fringe of what one would call normal , prudent judgment '' to let birthdays become part of personnel decisions , he says .
But `` maybe they all secretly do it . ''
When Bill Blackburn , an advertising executive from Chicago , moved to London 24 years ago , he could n't stand the place .
It was damp .
It was dreary .
It was inefficient .
And the ice cream was terrible .
That last discovery really hurt .
Mr. Blackburn , 57 years old , still gets misty-eyed describing the homemade peppermint ice cream he ate as a kid and helped crank whenever his parents gave a dinner party .
`` Good ice cream has to be rich , '' Mr. Blackburn says with a connoisseur 's fondness .
`` The fat must come from cream and butter , and you need a lot of it . ''
Yet in a land of dairy surpluses and dessert lovers , in a nation that slathers its crumpets in clotted cream , the ice cream somehow managed to be thin , tasteless and , inexplicably , creamless .
The lethal ingredient was `` non-dairy fat , '' as the English call it , which usually means the vegetable fat liberally used in lieu of cream .
Even that was a big improvement over the postwar years .
Because of rations and shortages , English ice cream was fashioned from such tantalizing substances as whale lard and bacon grease .
`` Lard ice cream , '' groans sociologist Owen Rossan , an American expat who first tasted the stuff in 1964 .
`` If ever the sun shone , it would never drip on you . ''
So after a decade here , Mr. Blackburn made a decision .
He did n't want to leave England , where his family was happy .
And he was n't ready to air-ship his favorite flavors from the U.S. .
So he started an ice cream business , using an all-American recipe , heavy on the milk and cream .
He rented a modest factory in Western England , designed a chipper red , white and blue carton , and tested flavors -LRB- he started out with chocolate , vanilla , Vermont maple pecan and , of course , peppermint -RRB- .
And he dubbed the whole thing New England Ice Cream .
`` New England 's the part of America I like best , and I thought it might stand for quality in English people 's eyes , '' he says .
Dessert fans with a memory insist the situation has improved .
These days several companies turn out bona fide ice cream made from all the proper ingredients .
In fact , a couple years after Mr. Blackburn invented New England , another American , a former stockbroker , launched Dayvilles 32 Flavors , which aped the all-American multiflavor concept and judiciously abstained from bacon fat .
But much of the stuff that gets plopped on cones , stirred in shakes and scooped onto waffles is a blend of such lip-smacking ingredients as whey powder , glucose syrup , skimmed milk , sugar , artificial flavorings and , of course , vegetable fat .
And few Brits seem to mind .
`` Food just is n't part of the culture here , and that goes for ice cream , '' sighs Mr. Rossan .
Oddly enough , ice cream was part of England 's culture long before Americans had ever licked it .
A royal banquet in 1387 included a promising-sounding concoction called creme frez .
And in 1750 `` The New Universal Complete Confectioner '' printed an ice cream recipe .
Ice cream is still a staple of royal banquets , though food critics routinely skewer Buckingham Palace menus for lack of imagination .
Fourteen years in the ice cream business has convinced Mr. Blackburn that Brits can still learn to love the real stuff .
`` I do n't think tastes in Britain are different from tastes in the U.S. , although I think Americans have a somewhat richer palate , '' he says , poised over a hot fudge sundae at the snappy tile-walled soda fountain he and his late wife , Susan , opened at Harrods department store a few years back .
As proof he scans the customers bellying up to the soda bar , a comfortable mix of Sarah Fergusonesque Sloane Rangers and American tourists .
The notorious British fondness for sweets may eventually develop into a taste for super-rich ice cream , too , Mr. Blackburn believes -- and hopes .
`` At 14 % butterfat , our ice cream was considerably richer than any other when we started out , and now we 're up to 15 % , '' he says in professorial tones . -LRB- America 's superduper-rich ice creams are a vein-clogging 18 % butterfat . -RRB-
His company , which now boasts 13 ice cream and sorbet flavors , finally turned a profit three years ago and should chalk up $ 3 million in sales this year .
`` And I 'm not much of a businessman , '' he adds .
`` I just like ice cream an awful lot . ''
The fun part of the job is product testing , and dapper Mr. Blackburn has gained 20 pounds in the process . -LRB- His favorites include his Colombian coffee , which has crunchy coffee grains mixed in ; a sinful pralines and cream ; and double chocolate chip , a new flavor . -RRB-
He 's also gotten a little help from his new Ice Cream Academy , a group of 35 foodies and friends who regularly receive a dozen or so tubs of New England Ice Cream and report their findings .
Last fall the academy , whose members include author Len Deighton , actor Ian McKellen , journalist Godfrey Smith and a gaggle of English food writers , met at a big London art gallery for a blind tasting featuring nine brands of ice cream from Britain , Italy and the U.S. .
As the champagne flowed , blobs of ice cream were dispersed , followed by bland biscuits to erase the taste . -LRB- With no spittoons , the tasters could dispose of their samples as they saw fit . -RRB-
And the results ?
New England and Marks & Spencer Luxury , an elegant English concoction , beat out seven other vanillas , including Haagen-Dazs .
Vanni of Italy won the chocolate competition , followed by New England and Ben & Jerry 's .
Mr. Blackburn 's background has made him an ideal , if offbeat , ice cream pioneer .
A Princeton graduate , he went into the advertising business in Chicago following a stint in the Army , where he saw a bit of action at the tail end of the Korean War .
His specialty was launching new products , which included a disposable diaper called Pampers -LRB- the rest seem to have gone the way of most new products -RRB- .
He also handled accounts for several ice cream makers , including the American Dairy Association and Coldwrap Ltd. .
As a son of one of the founders of the Kraft Food Inc. , he also knew a thing or two about the dairy world , though he insists the family business was never a big attraction .
`` When I was about 11 years old , my whole class was taken to see a film about the company called ' The Romance of Cheese . '
But cheese did n't seem very romantic , and I did n't have much interest in going into that . ''
Mr. Blackburn became sufficiently serious about the ice cream business in 1977 to fold his advertising firm and concentrate on dreaming up and marketing new flavors .
His next plan is to open a chain of American-style soda fountains , complete with counters , stools and a generous scoop of nostalgia .
Though drugstore soda fountains were never a big part of Britain 's past , the locals have seen enough movies to know the genre .
`` I make ice cream .
But what I 'm really selling is American culture , '' Mr. Blackburn says .
Ms. Trucco is a free-lance writer based in England .
W.R. Wilson , president and chief executive officer of Lukens Inc. , was elected a director of this natural gas holding company , increasing board membership to 16 .
Joseph H. Head Jr. , a partner in a Cincinnati law firm , was elected a director of this bank holding company .
He succeeds William S. Rowe , who retired .
Donald P. Crivellone was named president of this commercial bank , succeeding Thomas G. Anderson , 52 years old , who was named vice chairman .
Mr. Crivellone , 50 , formerly operated Dobin Enterprises , a Los Angeles-based management consulting firm .
When Adolphe Demeure de Lespaul died unexpectedly nearly two years ago , the corporate culture he had nurtured as chairman of Petrofina S.A. quickly began to fade .
It was a culture that shunned attachments to the giant holding companies that control much of the rest of Belgium 's economy , a culture that put independent industrial success above all else .
When asked in 1984 what he thought of joining forces with one of the holding companies , the strongwilled Mr. Demeure rolled out his most damning insult : `` We are industrialists , and they are financiers . ''
But since his death , the financiers have come close to satisfying their long-held longing for this gem of the oil industry .
The two holding companies , Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. and Groupe Bruxelles Lambert S.A. , together have become Petrofina 's biggest shareholders with a stake of more than 18 % , and they hold six of 18 board seats .
This month , they launched an effort to boost their stake indirectly , through an unusual tender offer for a portion of Britain 's Imperial Continental Gas Association , which owns 7.2 % of Petrofina .
The main reason for Petrofina 's allure has been its performance after the plunge in oil prices that began in 1985 .
While much of the oil industry struggled to keep from sinking along with prices , the world 's No. 15 oil concern quietly continued to churn out profits like clockwork as it had for two decades .
Net income increased 7.6 % last year , to the current equivalent of $ 483 million .
Chairman Jean-Pierre Amory explains the company 's success in one word : flexibility .
He boasts about its tiny central organization of only 400 people for a company that has 200 affiliates and 22,700 employees and sales of $ 17.37 billion in 1985 , the latest year for which revenue figures are available .
Whether the convoluted strategy of Belgium 's two big holding companies will succeed is n't clear .
Even though they increased their stake in IC Gas to 22.2 % through their offer , which closed Monday , the price of IC Gas shares has continued to rise , leading to speculation that another bidder may emerge .
But clearly the Petrofina secret has come into the open .
Many observers say that is why last year Gulf Resources & Chemical Corp. of the U.S. made an unsuccessful bid for IC Gas , and why Petrofina is on plenty of wish lists .
Few have been able to penetrate Petrofina 's inner circle to discover just how the company does so well .
Analysts say Petrofina is tight-lipped about both its successes and its failures .
`` It 's just what its name says , '' observes Sue Graham , an analyst at Merrill Lynch , Pierce , Fenner & Smith Inc. in London .
`` Petrofina S.A. -- ' Societe Anonyme ' -- the anonymous society . ''
Petrofina will n't say where it makes its profits or where it buys its oil .
It will n't disclose how much it makes on production of crude oil and how much on refining and chemical manufacturing .
Some analysts think it has a special trading department that specializes in seeking out the best deals and making fast decisions on the world 's crude-oil markets .
Others think the company bought a huge reserve of oil when the price bottomed out and will use it only after the price rises .
`` But you will n't see any of that mentioned in the annual report , '' says Marc de Brouwer , an analyst at Peterbroeck van Campenhout & Cie. in Brussels .
One thing is clear : Petrofina has developed a profit orientation that pervades all aspects of the company -- from its oil fields in Africa , the North Sea and North America to its 11,000 Fina service stations in 16 countries in Europe , North America and Africa .
Since 1978 , profits have risen an average of 15 % each year without a decline .
`` As long as they do that , '' says David Johnson , an oil analyst at London merchant bank Morgan Grenfell & Co. , `` they do n't have to explain too much . ''
One of Petrofina 's central strategies is to have plenty of cash to handle emergencies and make quick decisions .
`` Petrofina is the most remarkable company I 've ever met , '' says Ms. Graham , the Merrill Lynch analyst .
`` It stuffs money away like there 's no tomorrow . ''
The treasure trove certainly helped the company in December 1985 to jump on Charterhouse Petroleum PLC , the British oil company , which it acquired for $ 230 million .
And it helped again late last year when Petrofina grabbed the oil and gas interests of Williams Cos. of the U.S. for an undisclosed price .
Mr. Amory , Petrofina 's chairman , says he has another $ 1 billion on hand for the next opportunity .
`` I can write four or five checks and have my billion dollars , '' he says .
He says the company 's decentralized structure allows company managers to make on-the-spot decisions without being second-guessed .
The company is known to have profited richly on quick purchases at good prices of low-grade crude oil , which it then filters through its highly efficient refinery operations and turns into high-grade products .
In 1986 , Petrofina says , 15 % of its sales came from chemical products , one of the highest percentages among integrated oil companies .
For all its acuity and stashed-away cash , Petrofina still does n't fully control its destiny .
Fewer than 40 % of its 18.2 million shares are held by identifiable parties .
The other stockholders have bearer shares and never show up at company meetings lest they run into the tax inspector .
How will Petrofina come out of the big Belgian holding companies ' battle for IC Gas ?
If Groupe Bruxelles Lambert and the Tractebel S.A. affiliate of Societe Generale gain control of IC Gas 's holding in Petrofina , the two will hold more than 20 % of Petrofina shares and will be able to block any major intiative put before the board .
Moreover , the winner of the IC Gas stake is expected to be able to assume IC Gas 's three board seats .
But if the holding companies lose IC Gas 's 7.2 % share to an outside party , an erosion could begin of what Mr. Amory , the Petrofina chairman , describes as the `` friendly and stable '' circle of shareholders who now control Petrofina .
Mr. Amory seems to take the idea of a bigger holding by GBL and Societe Generale with equanimity .
Asked whether he is worried about the prospect of their exercising greater control , he replies indirectly .
`` I would be worried like hell if IC Gas were to be bought by Mr .
-LRB- T. Boone -RRB- Pickens -LRB- Jr. -RRB- , '' the Texas corporate raider .
Tokyo share prices roared to still another high on record turnover .
But London shares barely advanced as trading remained surprisingly quiet after Tuesday 's budget-related bull run .
Tokyo 's Nikkei stock average , which rose 99.36 points Tuesday , surged another 190.33 to 21,705.06 , its second consecutive record close .
It surpassed Tuesday 's 21,514.73 .
The stock exchange index rose 17.05 to 1874.80 .
Volume was about 2.4 billion shares , up from Tuesday 's 1.8 billion and more than double Monday 's 1.1 billion .
Yesterday 's record turnover eclipsed the mark set Aug. 21 , when volume was 2.3 billion .
Yesterday 's bullishness was inspired either by Tuesday 's gains on Wall Street or the Tokyo market 's own momentum , depending on the analyst questioned .
In any case , traders were optimistic that the Nikkei average will advance further this week as liquidity continues to flow into the market from Japanese tokkin funds , which are similar to U.S. mutual funds .
And a feared correction in recent price surges will n't take place until April , some analysts say .
Others say it will n't take place at all .
The unprecedented turnover , 66 % of which involved the top 10 gainers , was attributed to large infusions of cash by tokkin funds whose valuations are due tomorrow .
Electric cable issues closed sharply higher amid continued talk about commercial applications of a new high-temperature superconductor refined by Japanese scientists .
The technological refinement opens the way to a new generation of cables that transmit electrical power or impulses with minimal resistance .
Most brokerage houses posted only moderate gains despite the record turnover .
Nomura and Nikko were up .
Daiwa , though , fell on profit-taking .
Export-led electrical and computer shares were mixed to weaker .
Early gains by steel issues were eroded by profit-taking , which struck here and there during the day .
Meanwhile , London shares registered very modest gains over Tuesday 's record close , which came on the heels of the unveiling of Britain 's fiscal 1988 budget .
The 100-share index , which closed Tuesday at a record 2006.3 and stood at 2017.2 early yesterday , closed just 0.3 point higher at 2006.6 .
The Financial Times industrial share index rose 2.6 to 1589.5 .
The market showed early strength , buttressed by yesterday 's highs in New York and Tokyo as well as London .
But stocks drifted lower the rest of the day in one of the quietest post-budget trading sessions in at least one trader 's memory .
Share prices already had discounted many of the budget 's bullish measures , which were widely reported in advance , the trader said .
Another trader cited lack of overseas demand as investors digest the budget and wait to see how the half a percentage point cut in British banks ' basic lending rates yesterday affect exchange rates .
In fact , there was disappointment in the market because a full percentage-point reduction had been anticipated , said a market maker at a leading securities firm .
The gold mines index rose 3.1 points to 344.3 .
Here are price trends on the world 's major stock markets , as calculated by Morgan Stanley Capital International Perspective , Geneva .
To make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 .
The percentage change is since year-end .
Anacomp Inc. said it completed the previously announced purchase of General Dynamics Corp. 's Datagraphix Inc. unit for $ 128 million .
Anacomp , a software and data-services concern , said the purchase price , which was n't previously disclosed , will be financed later this week with a combination of a new bank credit agreement and the private placement of senior subordinated notes and convertible preferred stock .
Datagraphix , which had 1986 sales of $ 240.7 million , makes computer output microfilm equipment and high-speed non-impact page printers .
General Dynamics is a St. Louis-based defense contractor .
On behalf of the 168,000 members of the International Association of Fire Fighters in the U.S. and Canada , I must take angry and vigorous exception to the story on an attitude test -LRB- Section 3 , Feb. 27 -RRB- that purports to show that applicants for positions as firefighters and pharmacists `` are more likely . . . to steal from their employers . ''
This is a gross slander of the men and women in an occupation in which danger and death are constant companions .
Courage , initiative and integrity are among the characteristics essential to the performance of the high-risk duties of the firefighters in an era when new products and new chemicals have made the work even more challenging and hazardous .
To brush this all aside in reporting unscientific and essentially unsubstantiated determinations derived from the results of a test prepared by a commercial psychological-testing concern is a grave disservice .
Firefighters do not need to repeat the phrase of a disgraced former president -- `` I am not a crook '' -- in order to challenge this spurious psychology .
You noted that these tests have attracted `` little attention from civil libertarians . ''
At least the story has served one useful purpose : Our association will make certain that attention is focused on this slanderous use of testing .
Bralorne Resources Ltd. said it reached an agreement in principle with its long-term lenders regarding the rescheduling of about $ 101 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- of debt .
The oil and natural gas company said the accord will permit debt servicing to match available cash flow for the next three years .
Principal payments will be deferred , if necessary , and some unpaid interest will be added to the debt , it said .
The company said it expects the rescheduling will provide a `` stable financial environment until the energy industry recovers . ''
Your Feb. 20 editorial `` The Cotton Club '' misleads the reader on the history of government cotton programs .
It is true that a high-loan program was initiated in the early 1940s , but a key purpose was to ensure adequate fiber for the war effort .
That program continued until 1965 , when Congress -- at the request of cotton people -- based cotton 's price-support loan on market price rather than a percentage of parity .
New legislation in 1978 incorporated a similar approach .
From the mid-1960s until early 1985 , the market price rarely dipped even close to the loan floor but , across this whole period , averaged some 15 cents above it .
Market forces controlled cotton prices , and the U.S. share of world cotton exports rose substantially from 1965 through 1984 .
Cotton 's sharpest losses to synthetic fibers occurred at a time when their prices were two or three times higher than ours .
The losses were due primarily to the strongly promoted `` no-iron '' characteristics of synthetics .
In recent years , cotton has regained some of these losses through market development and research financed entirely by growers .
Only from 1985 to mid-1986 did the market-oriented loan keep U.S. cotton from being competitive , and this was primarily due to China 's massive increase in cotton production and the dollar 's unforeseen rise .
The law that took effect in August 1986 -- again at the request of cotton people -- corrected this problem .
Your contention that growers are `` guaranteed a price of 81 cents a pound '' is true only for very small growers .
The current limit on payments makes it impossible for growers of more than 150 to 600 acres -LRB- depending on yield -RRB- to collect the full 81 cents .
The largest are guaranteed only a little above 55 cents this season , and that will drop in the future .
Cotton 's share of total farm-program costs was less than 6 % in the first year of the Food Security Act of 1985 , compared with the historical average of 10 % .
USDA projections suggest cotton-program costs will drop by a further 50 % or more over the life of the law .
The cost of the cotton program is declining , production is increasing , producer income is being protected , jobs are being retained and cotton is contributing positively to the U.S. economy .
Finally , your observation that more than 10 million bales will be used domestically this year fails to acknowledge that imported cotton textiles will supply four million of those bales .
Cotton textile imports have doubled in five years .
If that growth rate continues , there will be no domestic market for U.S.-grown cotton in another eight years .
That is why the U.S. cotton industry favors legislation that would hold textile-import growth to the rate of domestic-market growth .
The U.S. cotton industry is cost-competitive with the major producing countries , but 95 % of foreign cotton production is subsidized .
Our major competitors include such non-market economies as China and Russia .
Without U.S.-government involvement , our markets are forfeited .
U.S. cotton production -- about $ 4 billion at the farm level -- is worth $ 45 billion at retail .
Farm-program costs and reasonable trade legislation should be viewed as an investment in a viable economy .
To ordinary Mexicans , the economy may look like a quagmire .
But others -- exporters , government officials , even some foreign bankers -- see signs Mexico is on the mend .
To be sure , the country remains saddled by recession and the second-highest external debt in the Third World .
Inflation is roaring ahead at an annual rate of more than 100 % and could worsen if monetary authorities succumb to the pre-election temptation to pump up the economy .
Nevertheless , private-sector economists who in the past had nary a kind word for the government have lately been offering grudging praise .
Skeptical foreign bankers who have traveled to Mexico recently have gone away appeased .
They are encouraged by the way Mexican monetary authorities responded to last year 's oil shock , and by the way some Mexican businesses reacted to monetary austerity .
A majority of analysts predict the economy will start expanding again this summer , albeit at a snail 's pace .
`` On the external adjustment , they did a much better job than anybody expected , '' says a U.S. bank economist .
`` I 've become a little bit more confident about -LCB- President Miguel -RCB- de la Madrid 's seriousness . ''
He adds : `` So far , so good .
Of course , they 're going to have to keep the brakes on , to keep it all from draining away . ''
The mood of cautious optimism today contrasts with the gloom that prevailed a year ago .
As early as February 1986 , worried officials realized that the slide in oil prices would cost Mexico billions of dollars in foreign-exchange revenue .
They predicted the country 's current-account balance -- which measures trade in goods and services as well as certain unilateral transfers -- would swing to a deficit of $ 5.5 billion from 1985 's surplus of $ 500 million .
They told U.S. officials they would need $ 9 billion in new foreign loans and interest-rate relief , and warned that if funds ran out , they would be forced to take a radical stand on the foreign debt .
`` It 's hard to find any other country whose terms of trade deteriorated so much in such a short time , '' says a Mexican financial official .
But the government 's fears never materialized : The central bank puts last year 's current-account gap at just $ 1.29 billion .
Authorities restrained the deficit , in part , by keeping domestic credit so tight that business executives had to bring back dollars from abroad to keep operations going .
In addition , the devaluation of the peso made manufactured goods cheaper -- and thus easier to sell -- abroad .
The result : Non-oil exports grew a bigger-than-expected $ 2.4 billion in 1986 , to $ 9.5 billion .
Mexico also got some help from last year 's decline in international interest rates .
In the end , rather than defaulting on its debt , it was able to negotiate a $ 12 billion package of new foreign credits .
Participating banks have been arguing for months about their contributions , but they are scheduled to reach an accord tomorrow on providing as much as $ 7.7 billion .
One private economist , who has been highly critical of the government 's policies , describes its performance last year as brilliant .
`` I think they may be able to get this beached whale -LCB- Mexico 's economy -RCB- moving again , '' he says .
Mexico will actually enjoy a temporary cash surplus if the bank loans come through as planned .
But some economists wonder whether it can manage times of relative plenty as skillfully as it managed last year 's hardship .
`` When things look unfavorable in the outside world , we 're forced to do things better , '' says a Mexican monetary official .
`` When there is a reversal of conditions , we seem to relax all the controls and start spending like a nouveau riche . ''
The government has been promising for months that it will loosen credit and fuel moderate economic growth once the foreign bank loans come through .
The 1987 budget promises to give businesses access to 20 % more credit , in real terms , than last year .
Money-supply figures are already on the upswing .
`` This is what is going to scare the foreign bankers most : domestic credit creation , '' says economist Rogelio Ramirez de la O .
He worries that with factory use at about 70 % of capacity , investors will n't put their share of the new funds into productive assets , but rather into paper ones -- including dollars .
The long-awaited loan package `` is money that could flow out of the country , '' he warns .
On top of that , Mexican government officials seem determined to slow the pace of peso devaluations that did exporters so much good last year .
The officials say the devaluations contribute to inflation by making imports more expensive .
The Center for Economic Studies of the Private Sector , a Mexico City think tank , says fighting inflation is the right battle , but exchange-rate manipulation the wrong weapon .
Its economists wish the government instead would emphasize old-fashioned budget cutting .
They say that if the government tries to restore economic growth as promised this year , without first reducing the budget deficit sufficiently , hyperinflation will result .
Almost no private economist believes the government can meet its goal of reducing inflation to 80 % this year from 106 % last year .
In just the first two months of 1987 , consumer prices rose by 16 % .
Experts also doubt the government will achieve its target of 2.5 % -3 % economic growth , reversing last year 's 3.7 % contraction .
But they think it can attain an expansion of 1 % to 1.5 % without unleashing hyperinflation -- if monetary officials keep money tight .
In an election season , when politicians have been promising growth , that 's a big if .
Pessimists fear the government will relax the monetary reins as soon as the new foreign loans come through .
Such a course would backfire in the long run , warns a Mexican economist who says the government will eventually have to ask its foreign creditors for more relief .
`` You can n't go back to the banks and ask for lower spreads on interest rates , or a grace period on interest payments , without taking important additional domestic measures , '' he says .
The U.S. bank economist has doubts about the Mexicans ' perserverence .
In the past , they 've demonstrated their ability to make a dramatic short-term adjustment , he says .
`` But have they got the capacity to sustain it in an election year ?
I 've got to say no , they 'll probably blow it again , '' he says .
`` But they 'll probably blow it less dramatically than they did before . ''
Alan Reynolds has performed an important public service with his article -LRB- editorial page , March 5 -RRB- showing how Japan confounded the economists by growing its way out of a large trade deficit that it accumulated for two decades .
Mr. Reynolds correctly warns that the current hysteria over the U.S. trade deficit is unjustified and can lead to disastrous policies .
The economists who urge higher taxes , tariffs and stringent monetary policy as solutions to the U.S. trade deficit need to consider the impact on the world economy .
There were two minor , yet possibly confusing , typographical errors in my article .
The reference to the `` Handbook of Korea '' should read 1978 , not 1987 .
The comment that `` Japan had a current-account deficit between 1973 and 1980 '' should read `` Japan had a current-account deficit for five of the years from 1973 through 1980 . ''
A more substantive error is mine , namely that South Korea 's foreign debt in 1982 equaled an entire year 's GNP -- it was `` only '' half a year 's GNP , or $ 33 billion .
Scott Paper Co. said its Westbrook , Mass.-based S.D. Warren unit will undergo a $ 70 million modernization program to upgrade the unit 's pulping facilities .
The paper products company said construction is scheduled for early April with completion expected in midsummer of 1988 .
The unit produces medium-weight and heavyweight coated printing and publishing papers .
Rabbit Software Corp. said it agreed in principle to acquire Micro Plus II of Boca Raton , Fla. , for about $ 11 million in stock .
Under terms of the proposed acquisition , shareholders of Micro Plus II , a closely held computer hardware company , would receive about two million shares of Rabbit common stock .
The transaction is subject to a definitive agreement , approval by various third parties and other conditions .
Completion of the transaction is expected by May .
Rabbit designs , develops and markets data communications software products .
In a Jan. 30 editorial about the FDA 's `` fast-track '' approval system for AIDS medications and about a new drug -- erythropoietin -- for kidney problems , you asked on behalf of dialysis patients : `` Why are n't we allowed on that fast track too ? ''
The FDA 's answer to them is : `` You are . ''
Treatment and prevention of AIDS are the Public Health Service 's highest priorities .
But for some years breakthrough drugs for other diseases have also received fast-track treatment .
Examples include monooctanonin , a chemical that dissolves gallstones ; leuprolide , a new treatment for prostate cancer ; somatrem , a synthetic version of human growth hormone ; etoposide , an anti-cancer drug , and interferon , the first successful treatment for a rare form of leukemia .
While only some applications can be given the highest priority -LRB- otherwise nothing gets priority -RRB- , Commissioner Young and I have pledged to the public to continue to work with consumer groups , the academic/research community , the drug industry and other Public Health Service agencies to increase steadily the FDA 's overall productivity and to ensure that important research is conducted and reviewed effectively and efficiently .
In the case of erythropoietin , dialysis patients will be pleased to know that it too has received fast-track treatment .
The FDA offered to help in developing the clinical trials needed for approval , one sponsor 's protocol was approved within two days of its receipt by the FDA , and the drug has already been awarded orphan-drug designation by the FDA , qualifying the sponsor for certain tax incentives and marketing rights .
When the final application for marketing does reach the FDA , its review also will be put on the fast track .
I Want to know at all .
Or just barely pass ?
-- Annie Komorny .
`` Rewind ! ''
-- May Richstone .
The following issues were recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission :
FIRST BANCORP -LRB- N.C. -RRB- , initial offering of 400,000 common shares , via Interstate Securities Corp. .
PENTECH INTERNATIONAL INC. , 500,000 units , each consisting of five common shares and one common stock purchase warrant .
In addition , the filing also covers 150,000 common shares to be sold by shareholders .
Beuret & Co. is the underwriter .
NORWEST CORP. , shelf filing for as much as $ 100 million of debt securities .
When combined with debt securities remaining unsold from previous shelf registrations , Norwest now has as much as $ 375 million of debt securities available for sale .
RAMADA INC. , $ 100 million of subordinated notes due 1999 , via Salomon Brothers Inc. .
COCA-COLA ENTERPRISES INC. , $ 250 million of notes due 1997 and $ 250 million of debentures due 2017 , via Salomon Brothers .
CATO CORP. , initial offering of 2.7 million Class A common shares .
Of the total , 680,000 will be sold by the company and the rest by shareholders , via Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. .
CHOCK FULL O' NUTS CORP. , $ 60 million of convertible senior subordinated debentures due 2012 , via Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. .
The heat was incredible .
I could hardly breathe .
My muscles ached .
As an infantry platoon leader in Vietnam , I had it a little easier than some of the others .
My rucksack weighed only 75 pounds or so .
But when you added grenades , four or five bandoliers of M-16 ammo and machine gun ammo , it was quite a burden .
But I could not think about that now .
I had other things to worry about ; my mind was racing .
`` Anticipate .
You must anticipate , '' I kept telling myself .
Where would the next ambush come from and how should I react ?
My eyes were wide open in search of the unknown .
As I moved my platoon of 20-odd teen-agers through the jungle , I chose to walk third in the line of march .
I had no seasoned veterans with me -- no sergeants who had been through it before .
Some of my `` men '' could n't even read a map .
If I got hit , I reminded myself , they would have trouble finding their way back to the firebase .
My point man was some well-meaning , poor soul who was on his first patrol .
He had a well-trained scout dog , which looked like Rin Tin Tin .
Right behind him was Pvt .
Larry Gatliff .
A tall , gawky guy , Larry was special .
Simply put , he was one nice kid .
Innocent , polite , cooperative .
He wanted everyone to `` get along . ''
To defuse arguments and keep harmony among his comrades , he would dig their foxholes in searing heat after a long day 's march through the rice paddies .
He was the kind of boy who would make any father proud .
On this day , I followed behind Larry as we walked slowly and carefully forward .
Having experienced the same scene during training in Panama , I had brought one squad up on my right flank for extra protection .
I was `` anticipating . ''
As we proceeded up a hill , it happened .
Machine-gun fire .
Screaming .
Rustling .
Groaning .
More firing .
Blood .
Silence .
The scout dog ran off howling through the jungle , never to be seen again .
The dog handler was shot through both legs , but was still alive .
I yelled at him to fire his M-16 at the enemy .
Larry fell backward next to me .
A bullet had passed through his helmet and taken off most of his head .
`` Fire ! ''
I screamed to the others .
`` Fire !
Do n't stop !
Get those bastards . ''
Bullets vibrated over my head .
I could actually feel them .
I was angry .
It seems crazy , but I was n't scared .
I was too busy .
The enemy tried to run around to our right .
They always seemed to be in control .
This time , however , they were too eager .
Too cocky .
They nearly tripped over my other squad , which was ready for them .
Minutes later , I placed Larry onto a chair that was dropped down from a Medivac helicopter hovering above .
Up he went , as I stared at him .
Tears filled my eyes .
I had done everything `` by the book '' : I had anticipated ; I had used my intuition .
But I had still lost him .
Although my voice was drowned out by the noise of the Huey , I yelled to him , `` I 'll never forget ! ''
Weeks and months passed .
There were more ambushes .
I lost several other soldiers every week .
Such was the hazard of working in I Corps in 1970 in South Vietnam in the Americal Division .
I made it a habit not to get close to them .
I did n't want to be their friend .
I was their lieutenant .
I knew about My Lai , Tet and Son Tay , but I was able to forget or at least accept it .
Later , I learned about Agent Orange and felt betrayed .
But for some reason Larry 's memory kept coming back to me .
Years passed .
I considered contacting Larry 's parents .
I knew that they had been notified by a form letter and that it had been a closed casket .
From my friends , I got divided opinions : Some said , `` Do n't contact them now -- it 's over , forget it ; do n't dredge up old pain and agony . ''
Others would tell me , `` If I were Larry 's parents , I 'd want to know how he died . ''
More time passed .
I did nothing .
Finally , on the eve of Veterans Day last year , I visited the Vietnam Memorial in Washington , D.C. .
As I rubbed my fingers over Larry 's name , I looked to my left and was surprised to see Chuck Norris standing next to me .
I said I did n't know he had been in Vietnam .
He whispered that his brother had been there .
His name was inscribed very near Larry 's .
While at the memorial , I learned that Larry came from Lebanon , Ore. , and wondered again if I should contact his family .
I decided to call .
It was nearly 16 years later , but somehow I thought it must be done .
From that call , I realized the full extent of one man 's tragic death .
Since it had been a closed casket , doubt had gnawed at the family for all these years : It 's not really Larry , right ?
There was a mistake , was n't there ?
Other questions preyed on them : Did Larry die dishonorably ?
Was he killed by one of his own men ?
Was he into drugs ?
Did he run away ?
Maybe he fled to another country , ashamed to come home because of a crippling injury .
Was it an accident ?
I spoke with Larry 's mother and revealed the true nature of Larry Gatliff 's honor .
He was , indeed , one of the best : a hero who died at a young age in an ugly war .
Later , I found out that after our discussion , Larry 's mother was able for the first time in 16 years to talk about her son without crying .
In some way , she had found peace .
So had I .
Mr. Shoemaker , a sales manager in Southborough , Mass. , served in Vietnam in 1970 .
Intense public opposition to Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone 's proposed nationwide sales tax is destroying political support for the plan and derailing his legislative agenda -- and now threatens to push him from office .
Opposition to the 5 % sales tax has been building since Mr. Nakasone and his Liberal Democratic Party introduced it last autumn .
Anti-tax rallies now attract tens of thousands of merchants , small-business owners and even Japan 's normally meek consumers .
A recent poll by the influential Asahi Shimbun newspaper indicated that 82 % of the nation opposes the tax .
Vivid evidence of Japanese discontent came last week in conservative Iwate prefecture .
After 25 years of staunch support for the ruling LDP , voters elected a Socialist , who opposes the tax , by a margin of two to one .
The `` Iwate shock '' brought into the open discontent that had festered within the ruling party for months and sent LDP members scurrying to distance themselves from party support for the tax .
In contrast to the good feeling and consensus that existed after the LDP 's overwhelming reelection victory last July , even the deputy prime minister has called on Mr. Nakasone to drop the tax plan or risk a big loss for the LDP in next month 's local elections .
Mr. Nakasone refuses .
The upshot : Mr. Nakasone may soon be out of a job .
Politicians and political analysts say the damage done by the tax proposal leaves Mr. Nakasone few alternatives than to withdraw the tax plan and then resign , perhaps between mid-April and late May .
`` There is a saying in Japan that the lizard cuts off its tail to save itself , '' says Masayuki Fukuoka , a professor of political science at Komazawa University in Tokyo .
`` LDP members are saying the head of the lizard must be cut off .
Mr. Nakasone is the head .
It is the only way . ''
Mr. Nakasone 's supporters note he has been astute enough to get out of political scrapes before .
The prime minister has good reason for avoiding a showdown .
Resigning before his term expires in October would deny him the capstone of his heretofore successful political career , a visit to the U.S. and to the June summit of industrialized nations in Venice .
`` He 's lost the chance to do all the things he wanted to do , '' says Takayoshi Miyagawa , an LDP pollster and political analyst who also says Mr. Nakasone will resign early .
`` Anti-tax now means anti-Nakasone . ''
The controversy -- and Mr. Nakasone 's inabilty to contain it -- is especially ironic because only last July he led the LDP to its most sweeping victory in 30 years .
At the time , analysts said the LDP 's control of more than 300 of the 512 seats in the parliament 's lower house would let Mr. Nakasone punch through whatever legislative measures he wanted .
Some analysts say the ill-fated tax plan may also have unpleasant effects for the `` new leaders '' of the LDP , one of whom had been expected to replace Mr. Nakasone in October .
Finance Minister Kiichi Miyazawa heads the government ministry responsible for drafting the tax bill .
After his successful meetings with U.S. Treasury Secretary James Baker on the stabilization of the Japanese yen , Mr. Miyazawa was considered the leading candidate .
The controversy also reflects badly on Noboru Takeshita , the secretary-general of the LDP , and Shintaro Abe , the chairman of the LDP parliament affairs committee , who were supposed to maintain party discipline while pushing the bill through parliament .
As taxes go , Mr. Nakasone 's sales tax proposal is modest .
More akin to a European value-added tax than the sales tax levied by many U.S. states and cities , Mr. Nakasone says it will affect only about 790,000 of Japan 's six million taxpayers .
It would bring in about $ 38.6 billion a year , at current exchange rates .
But it is complicated .
The government excludes 51 categories of goods and services from the tax , about 65 % of basic goods by government estimate .
Sales of food , beverages , company shares or land will n't be taxed .
The costs of a child 's birth will n't be taxed , but a funeral will .
Tickets to traditional Japanese `` kabuki '' will n't be taxed , but performances of `` rakugo , '' Japan 's equally traditional comic theater will .
Only companies with annual revenue of more than $ 660,000 have to pay the sales tax , which means 90 % of retail businesses are exempt .
So what 's the objection of the working people ?
Taxes paid by the big companies will be passed through Japan 's complicated distribution web , meaning that small retailers -- and consumers -- will have to shoulder higher prices .
With those fears , the timing of such a tax could n't be worse .
Japanese are already worried about the economy .
The high yen has forced Japan 's export-oriented industry to cut back capital spending , and in some cases , employment .
The economy grew only 2.5 % in 1986 , the lowest in 12 years .
Unemployment is at a record 3 % and could reach 3.6 % by the end of the year , according to William P. Sterling , senior economist with Merrill Lynch Securities in Tokyo .
Consumer spending , which the sales tax would discourage , also shows signs of weakness , he says .
In the eyes of the Japanese , Mr. Nakasone added insult to injury by solemnly promising before the July elections that he would n't levy a large-scale indirect tax .
He says he still has n't .
But others see it differently .
`` He lied , '' says Kunio Hatoyama , a parliament member and one of the first to break LDP ranks and oppose the tax .
`` The Japanese think they were fooled and that makes their opposition even stronger , '' says Mr. Fukuoka , the professor .
`` You can n't expect to take money from people after fooling them . ''
But flush with the overwhelming victory in July , Mr. Nakasone and LDP leaders did n't expect the backlash , leading them to think they could disregard the growing anti-tax sentiment , analysts say .
Until Iwate .
`` The lopsided result shows how worried people are about the conceitedness of the LDP , '' says Rei Isurugi , the unsuccessful LDP candidate who was running to replace her late husband .
She followed the party line but now says it was a mistake .
`` I can n't forget what my husband said right before he died , '' she says .
`` He said , ' Mr .
Nakasone tries to do things too quickly . '
He tried to get the tax plan without having the people 's understanding . ''
The party in that northern province has learned its lesson .
In the local elections that begin April 12 , Mrs. Isurugi says , `` Every single person is going to oppose the sales tax . ''
That is also the trend around the country where LDP candidates face election races .
But others are n't so sure .
The chairman of the Socialist Party , which with other opposition parties have succeeded in deadlocking the parliament , says Mr. Nakasone is `` good at pretending to be dead .
Suddenly , he will get up and dash . ''
The Commerce Department trimmed its estimate of fourth-quarter economic growth to a meager 1.1 % annual rate , but said the after-tax profits of U.S. corporations rose a healthy 6.1 % during the period .
The downward revision in growth from a 1.3 % pace occurred because inventory investment , consumer spending and government outlays were all weaker than originally reported .
This weakness was partly offset by a further narrowing of the trade deficit and a greater increase in nonresidential business investment than were estimated earlier .
The weak expansion in the real gross national product , the inflation-adjusted value of the nation 's output of goods and services , follows growth at a 2.8 % rate in the third quarter .
For all of 1986 , GNP increased 2.5 % after a 2.7 % rise in 1985 .
Many economists contend growth has picked up in the current quarter , partly as a result of inventory rebuilding .
Several analysts asserted that the latest revision bolsters that view .
`` A downward revision that involves leaner inventories should suggest that the beginning of the year will be even stronger '' than previously expected , said Roger Brinner , director of U.S. forecasting at Data Resources Inc. in Lexington , Mass. .
Companies started 1987 with `` a good , lean inventory position , and any demand must call forth production , '' he said .
The report showed that prices , as measured by a GNP-based gauge known as the deflator , rose at a subdued 0.7 % annual rate in the fourth quarter , the same as reported last month .
In the third quarter , the deflator increased at a 3.6 % pace .
For all of 1986 it increased 2.7 % after a 3.3 % rise in 1985 .
The rise in corporate profits was the sharpest since an 11.4 % gain in the third quarter of 1983 .
Lawrence Chimerine , chairman of Chase Econometrics in Bala-Cynwyd , Pa. , said the improvement reflects cost-cutting and some additional pricing flexibility as a result of the dollar 's decline against major currencies in foreign-exchange trading .
He contends that economic growth will remain slow this year but expects that profits will continue to rise .
The fourth-quarter increase brought profits to an annual rate of $ 144.2 billion , after a 5.5 % rise in the third quarter to a $ 135.9 billion pace .
Profits rose 1.9 % in all of 1986 .
The department 's measure of profits from current production increased 2.8 % to a rate of $ 310.4 billion in the fourth quarter , after rising 3 % to a $ 302 billion pace in the third period .
This gauge increased 7.1 % for the year .
This figure , which many analysts consider a better gauge of corporate financial health , is adjusted to eliminate the effects of inflation on inventories and to reflect capital depreciation more accurately .
Before taxes , profits rose 7.7 % to a $ 258.8 billion pace , after increasing 5.6 % to a $ 240.4 billion rate .
For the year , before-tax profits increased 6.4 % .
The department 's measure of corporate cash flow gained 0.3 % to a $ 391.6 billion rate , after rising 1.3 % to a $ 390.4 billion pace in the third quarter .
Cash flow rose 3.8 % in all of 1986 .
The quarterly figures are adjusted for seasonal variation .
Before adjustment for inflation , fourth-quarter GNP ran at an annual rate of $ 4.259 trillion , up from a $ 4.241 trillion pace in the third quarter .
Here are some of the major components of the gross national product expressed in seasonally adjusted annual rates in billions of constant -LRB- 1982 -RRB- dollars :
The Senate narrowly handed President Reagan a victory by voting 52-48 to release an already appropriated $ 40 million in military aid to the Nicaraguan insurgents .
The vote was largely symbolic , since the aid -- the final installment of a $ 100 million aid package previously approved by Congress -- was almost certain to be paid anyway .
President Reagan would have vetoed any measure to block the funds , and the Democratic opponents of the aid could n't have mustered enough votes to override him .
The real test of the president 's policy of aiding the so-called Contras will come this fall , when Congress is likely to consider a new administration request for $ 105 million in military assistance .
In yesterday 's vote , several Contra-aid supporters , such as Sens .
David Boren -LRB- D. , Okla. -RRB- and William Cohen -LRB- R. , Maine -RRB- , indicated they might n't vote again for military funds .
Their comments were in line with the general belief that the Democratic-controlled Congress will be reluctant to extend any further military assistance to the Contras .
Opponents of the funding argued that the Contras could n't win their war and had misspent millions of dollars of U.S. taxpayers ' money .
Advocates of the aid said U.S. support was necessary to protect the U.S. and other democracies in the Americas from encroachment by communists .
But , Senate Minority Leader Robert Dole -LRB- R. , Kan. -RRB- , a Contra-aid supporter , acknowledged : `` The real vote lies ahead . ''
BROCKTON SAVINGS BANK , based in Brockton , Mass. , plans an initial public offering of common stock at between $ 8 and $ 11 a share .
The thrift , which also said it is changing its name to Southstate Bank for Savings , said the public offering will begin after completion of a subscription offering of shares to depositors , employees and trustees .
The subscription offer expires Tuesday .
The thrift , which is converting to stock form from mutual ownership , said it plans to issue a total of two million shares in the public and subscription offerings .
Moseley Securities Corp. is lead underwriter for the public offering .
UNION CARBIDE CORP. sold $ 300 million of 7 1/2 % convertible debentures due 2012 at par , said head underwriter First Boston Corp. .
The securities are convertible at a rate of $ 35.50 of debentures for each common share .
Proceeds will be used to pay debt incurred in connection with the Danbury , Conn.-based chemical concern 's ongoing recapitalization , First Boston said .
Union Carbide closed at $ 28.75 , unchanged , in New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday .
If the Japanese keep on doing business as usual , it is becoming clear they will be squashed in the jaws of a vise .
Jaw number one is rising trade barriers in the importing nations .
Jaw number two is the emergence of the little Japans , all eager to outdo their teacher in providing higher-quality goods at lower cost .
The Japanese know that to survive in a changing world , they will have to make changes .
Japan has already started to move in new directions -- not only on Earth , but upward toward space .
Compared with those of the Americans and the Soviets , Japan 's space accomplishments to date have been quite modest .
Its space development budget for 1987 -LRB- $ 1.3 billion -RRB- is roughly one-eighth that of the U.S. .
But the real issue is not where countries already have been in space , but where they are going .
Although no Soviet has ever been to the moon , the Soviets are kings of the hill in terms of man-hours in space .
Even though their hardware is a generation behind that of the U.S. , it still does the job , getting cosmonauts into orbit and keeping them there for long periods .
More telling is the fact that the Soviets think space is important .
Brezhnev , for instance , was fond of saying that `` the Soviet Union is on the seacoast of the Universe . ''
Since the Challenger explosion a year ago , the U.S. space program has been like an elderly turtle on its back : It twitches feebly every now and then , but gets nowhere .
The problem is that the U.S. space program has no grand strategy .
Because of this , many Americans -LRB- in and out of government -RRB- see the space program as either a gigantic public-relations stunt or else a strictly military enterprise .
NASA administrator James Fletcher 's announcement in January that the civilian-in-space program for the shuttle was kaput for `` the next 20 flights , maybe forever '' did n't help erase this perception .
The Japanese , on the other hand , see space activity as the logical extension of what they are doing on Earth .
As Donald E. Fink , editor in chief of Aviation Week & Space Technology , writes : `` Space science -LCB- in Japan -RCB- is considered a key technical discipline that must be mastered to ensure future economic viability . ''
The Japanese are pursuing a slow , steady , purposeful expansion into space .
Last August , they launched an H-I rocket -LRB- capable of putting 1,200 pounds of payload in orbit -RRB- .
The H-I was 100 % made-in-Japan -- a first for them .
After eight scheduled flights , the H-I will be succeeded in 1992 by the H-II , which will be almost 50 yards long and will be able to put 4,400 pounds in orbit .
According to a series in Aviation Week last summer , the Japanese plan to have their own unmanned space station , new launch vehicles and space shuttle around the turn of the century .
Originally , Japan was to have put up 10 % of the cost of the U.S. space station ; it also was to have supplied an astronaut for the shuttle in 1988 .
But the shuttle has been postponed and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration announced last month that new cost estimates could delay the space station until 1995-96 .
A huge advantage the Japanese have over the U.S. is continuity of funding .
The Congressional Budget Office , for example , has urged the scrapping of both the space station and the Challenger replacement orbiter to help ease the federal deficit .
Its reasoning on the space station -- `` a lack of compelling arguments to undertake the project '' -- shows more clearly than anything else the walking-through-mine-fields status of the American space program .
The Japanese can make long-term plans , confident that funding and facilities will still be there when today 's eggs hatch .
Unlike the Americans and Soviets , who are fond of comparing space development to the opening of frontiers , the Japanese are characteristically restrained in talking publicly about longer-term strategic goals .
This may not just be good manners .
By keeping a low profile , they might not only avoid any potential foreign backlash , but also keep their space programs going smoothly at home .
As Aviation Week says , `` At home , downplaying the scope of the space program reduces oversight by the Japanese Diet , which to date has focused little attention on . . . relatively small bites out of the national budget . ''
When they do talk about space , Japanese officials put heavy stress on international aspects .
Hiroyuki Osawa , president of the National Space Development Agency of Japan , says : `` When the H-II becomes operational , we shall be about to participate in all aspects of world space activities . ''
Shigebumi Saito , acting chairman of the Space Activities Commission of Japan , is even more emphatic .
`` The scope of space development is so large , international cooperation will become more and more important , '' he says .
However , as the U.S. government becomes more of an iffy partner , the Japanese will probably reassess how international they want to be .
Their international space efforts may well come through multinational corporations operating in Japan .
Finally , if anyone were taking bets on which society would be most adaptable to living and working in space , the odds-on favorite would have to be the Japanese .
The Japanese culture , with its strong emphasis on politeness , cooperation and getting along in cramped quarters , is custom-tailored to space stations and permanent space habitats .
In addition , resource-poor , energy-poor Japan certainly cannot be blind to the possibilities of utilizing extra-terrestrial resources , such as asteroid mining and solar-power satellites .
The American novelist Robert A. Heinlein once characterized the enormous potentials of space by writing : `` It 's raining soup .
Grab a bucket ! ''
The Japanese are slowly forming bucket brigades while the U.S. is trading in its buckets for sieves .
Mr. Kirwan is assistant editor of the Energy Journal , published by the International Association of Energy Economists .
The European Community Commission said it will take antitrust actions against three carriers -- but not for three weeks .
The three airlines -- Lufthansa AG of West Germany , Italy 's Alitalia and Olympic Airways of Greece -- are being granted the three weeks as `` a last opportunity '' to show their willingness to amend practices the commission deems anticompetitive , a commission spokesman said .
The grace period also will give the commission a chance to see how much progress the 12 Common Market transportation ministers make when they meet here next week to discuss EC airline deregulation .
The commission is understood to be reluctant to discipline any airlines without first giving the ministers another opportunity to approve a deregulation plan .
Last summer , 10 large European airlines were told the commission intended to start antitrust proceedings against them .
Seven of the carriers then pledged to modify their methods of fixing tariffs , pooling revenue and dividing routes with other European airlines .
But Lufthansa , Alitalia and Olympic did n't `` indicate their readiness to modify those agreements or practices which restrict competition , '' the commission said .
Now , if the airlines do n't do that within three weeks , the commission will ask their governments to intervene to make their operations conform to EC law .
If that fails , the commission would bring the governments before the European Court of Justice .
EC analysts say that particular legal approach could open the three airlines to lawsuits from competitors , travel agents and consumers who could sue for damages arising from the airlines ' allegedly monopolistic practices .
WESTERN PETROLEUM CO. is a closely held company based in Eden Prairie , Minn .
An earlier edition incorrectly said that Western Petroleum is a unit of Western Co. of North America .
-LRB- See : `` IBM Gets Contract for $ 120.3 Million of Navy Equipment '' -- WSJ March 18 , 1987 -RRB-
In an interview in Moscow last Sunday , the recently released Soviet dissident Anatoly Koryagin blew one man 's whistle on glasnost .
We hope the rest of the world hears him .
Dr. Koryagin , a Soviet psychiatrist , had dissented from the longstanding Soviet practice of putting outspoken critics of the system in psychiatric hospitals .
For this , the Soviets put Dr. Koryagin in prisons and labor camps for six years .
He got out last month .
Glasnost .
Dr. Koryagin asked Sunday that a commission be set up to start processing political inmates out of the Soviet Union 's psychiatric hospitals .
We have a better suggestion for Mr. Gorbachev : Blow up the `` hospitals . ''
The Soviet Union 's well-documented use of psychiatry as punishment is one of the base phenomena of the 20th century .
Medical science , in a forward leap of knowledge , has enhanced lives ; the Soviet Union , deciding to play Mr. Hyde in a world of Dr. Jekylls , perverted psychiatric pharmacology to destroy lives .
Vladimir Tsurikov , for example , was committed in 1980 for `` emigrational delusions . ''
He was repeatedly injected with sulfazin , a preparation of purified sulfur with no therapeutic effect .
He said : `` The sulfazin made my temperature rise .
My tongue hung out. . . .
This nightmare lasted a week , until I was invited to chat with some medical students .
I could n't walk , so I was carried .
In the auditorium it turned out I could n't move my tongue . ''
Prisoners are overdosed with tranquilizers , given contraindicated drugs , beaten , tied to beds .
Amnesty International knows of some 50 such prisoners .
Probably there are more .
Freed from prison , Dr. Koryagin wishes to leave the country .
The system `` will remain a dictatorship , '' he says , `` until there is some sort of counterbalance to the Communist Party , some political alternative . ''
He is right .
Glasnost -- `` openness '' -- will be a warped word so long as the Soviet Communist Party holds men and women to be insane for opposing communism .
Glasnost may begin to carry meaning when the psychiatric prisons are opened to international inspection teams , emptied and shut down .
The recent nationalist riots by Kazakhs in the Soviet city of Alma-Ata , Kazakhstan , are a serious portent for Soviet planners who envisage unimpeded Russian rule in the Soviet empire into the indefinite future .
And they are an important reminder to outside analysts who have failed to recognize that minority nationalism remains a prominent threat to the empire 's long-term survival and short-term stability .
We seldom receive direct evidence of nationalist unrest inside the U.S.S.R. .
The Russians have succeeded in controlling nationalist feelings and resentment in many parts of the Soviet state through the use of elaborate police , military and intelligence apparatuses .
Also , the movement of information from the empire 's non-Russian periphery often faces the added disadvantage of language barriers , distance and the lack of interest on the part of both the Moscow intelligentsia , who are the usual channel for other kinds of dissidence , and public opinion beyond Soviet borders .
With regard to Alma-Ata , it is tempting to conclude that the Soviet regime 's own apparent candor on the matter is further evidence of Mikhail Gorbachev 's vaunted glasnost campaign .
But the Soviet reporting was an effort to structure unstoppable news to the Soviets ' best advantage .
The hundreds of foreigners in Alma-Ata would have rapidly exported the story in any case , putting their own interpretations on the tumultuous events .
December 's riots in Alma-Ata were not the first .
In 1980 , Kazakhs rioted when Soviet officials attempted quietly to bury Kazakh soldiers who had been killed in Afghanistan in Soviet military , rather than Moslem , cemeteries .
The war in Afghanistan , in fact , has prompted a number of minority protests -- from the Baltic states and Transcaucasia to Central Asia .
There were several mutinies by Soviet Moslem soldiers inside Afghanistan in 1981 and 1985 and at least one protest in the U.S.S.R. by Moslems in Astrakhan in 1985 .
The recent Alma-Ata riots demand our close attention .
First , while estimates of the number of rioters vary greatly , from 10,000 to several hundred thousand , they are significant by any standard , and in the Soviet context they are truly extraordinary .
So are the number of casualties -- as many as 40 killed , according to unofficial sources -- including policemen , militia and Communist Party officials . -LRB- Soviet officials admit to only two deaths . -RRB-
And while early reports from Soviet sources insisted that the rioters were mostly young people and other impressionable elements , reports from eyewitnesses now indicate that practically every stratum of Kazakh society was represented .
Soviet officials have passed severe sentences on a number of young university faculty members , including women , and embarked on pre-emptive purges of social-science faculties in nearby republics .
Thus they have admitted that the rioters were not simply , or even primarily , thugs or `` parasites '' and that the movement could spread .
Second , the apparent cause of the riots -- the dismissal of Kazakhstan Communist Party First Secretary Dinmukhamed Kunaev , himself a Kazakh , and his replacement by Gennadi Kolbin , a Russian crony of Mr. Gorbachev -- is both revealing and suggestive .
At base it shows the substantial groundswell of anti-Russian feeling that lies just below the surface among the non-Russian natives .
The conduct of the riots suggests planning and coordination .
Mr. Kunaev 's dismissal had been rumored for weeks ; when it was announced , the streets suddenly came alive .
The Soviets ' own reporting claims that the riots were `` not spontaneous '' and that the leadership of the riots was well organized .
Only the most naive optimist will conclude that Mr. Kunaev 's replacement by a Russian is the sole cause of the disturbances .
They clearly result from much deeper and longstanding hostility .
One need not have the ability to predict events like the Alma-Ata riots to appreciate the political sensitivity of replacing the Kazakh Kunaev with Kolbin the Russian .
Unless we conclude that Mr. Gorbachev intended gratuitous offense to the Kazakh people by breaking one of the seldom-violated principles of cadre appointments -- i.e. , a member of the nominal nationality of a republic becomes first secretary -- then we must conclude that he blundered .
Will more glasnost help Mr. Gorbachev remedy his problems in Central Asia , as several commentators have suggested ?
Glasnost is an unlikely palliative for the grievances of the U.S.S.R. 's many national minorities .
Given a fair chance , many would be certain to describe Russian-minority relations openly in terms that the Kremlin cannot tolerate , such as `` colonialism , '' `` Russian chauvinism , '' or racism , which is precisely why glasnost is unlikely to be extended in any significant way to the non-Russian borderlands .
Alma-Ata should sound the final death knell in the U.S.S.R. and abroad for the New Soviet Man fantasy of the official Soviet liturgy .
In the face of massive Soviet efforts over many decades to convince the rioters ' grandparents and parents of the wisdom of sublimating their national feelings to an overarching `` Soviet patriotism , '' their children today by choice remain more Kazakh than `` Soviet . ''
This fact should caution against accepting uncritically the version of Soviet reality of many Western political scientists and economists , who insist that Soviet political and economic progress has given birth to a new generation of upwardly mobile non-Russians who have an inviolable stake in the system , and who can therefore be counted on to defend it .
What we now know beyond doubt is that a large number of Kazakh young people and professionals with good prospects and positions were prepared to sacrifice them to remain Kazakh above all else .
At some point the magnetic attraction of economic betterment becomes meaningless .
This is n't so for a far more ominous attraction , however .
Several Western accounts of the Alma-Ata riots noted that some demonstrators were carrying signs that read `` We want to join China , '' or words to that effect .
Post-riot Soviet reports referred to some of the rioters ' `` obnoxious banners . ''
Assuming that these banners reflect the political feelings of some , if not many , Kazakhs , they represent an important reversal of a crucial regional reality .
China has a large Kazakh population of its own , which it has historically oppressed .
Over the past 50 years , there have been many Kazakh migrations from China to the Soviet empire .
However , in the early 1980s China undertook important and far-reaching changes with a view toward stabilizing a nagging borderland vulnerability that the Soviets have conscientiously exploited for decades .
China still has some distance to go before its Kazakhs will be fully content .
But if the banners are representative , China has already moved far enough to reverse the poles of attraction .
The Alma-Ata riots will be seen throughout the Soviet Union as `` Moslem riots , '' even though Kazakh nationalism is in many ways different from nationalism among other Soviet Moslems in that it has always been strongly secular in character .
We simply cannot know at this stage if the common bond of Islam among the Kazakhs or the Islamic stimuli from Iran and Afghanistan played an important role in the direction or severity of the riots .
We do know that Soviet leaders have recently expressed considerable apprehension about the politicization of Islam in Central Asia .
They are undoubtedly concerned that the Kazakhs ' example will spread to other parts of Central Asia and that it will acquire in transit a more pronounced Islamic coloring .
The distance between Kazakh nationalism and `` Moslem nationalism '' is indeed short and could be easily bridged .
Mr. Gorbachev has already signaled that he is aware of this possibility .
For example , his cadre is responsible for orchestrating the current vehement anti-Islamic campaign in the borderlands , the most strident campaign of its kind since the Khrushchev days .
Mr. Gorbachev himself , as recently as November , complained in Tashkent about the rising specter of unchecked religious adherence , even among the party faithful , and demanded tough measures to deal with it .
On the subjects of national feeling and religion , he has provided no evidence to support his image in the West as a liberal pragmatist .
A sizable cross-section of Kazakhs have already spoken , glasnost or no glasnost .
Even if Mr. Gorbachev cracks down hard and ruthlessly on the perpetrators of the Kazakh riots , as he has already begun to do , there is every likelihood that other Soviet minorities , non-Moslems as well as Moslems , will raise their own demands in their own ways and in their own time .
American strategist Albert Wohlstetter certainly comes close to the mark when he describes the U.S.S.R. and its satellites as having `` the brittle stability of an explosive mixture in a strong container capped under high pressure . ''
Mr. Wimbush is director of the Society for Central Asian Studies in Oxford , England .
This article is adapted from one in a coming issue of Encounter magazine .
During production of `` Hollywood Shuffle , '' his first movie , producer-writer-director Robert Townsend nearly lost hope .
Having sunk his $ 60,000 bankroll into the project , he was flat broke and only half finished .
At that bleak moment he looked for inspiration and found it -- in his junk mail .
Retrieving the unsolicited application for a preferred Visa card with a pre-approved $ 7,000 credit line from the trash , Mr. Townsend saw how he could complete his film .
`` I called Citibank in New York , the Bank of Boston , Great American Bank and others until I wound up with a $ 40,000 credit line . ''
Then he went on a shopping spree .
He put the film 's wardrobe on his Saks Fifth Avenue card , and catering on Montgomery Ward .
He paid for his celluloid stock with his Visa card .
When he found out the film store gave a discount to students , Mr. Townsend -- who was n't one -- got his 10 % off after he and his crew donned UCLA T-shirts .
Mr. Townsend is nothing if not quick on his feet .
He shot his film in 14 days -LRB- `` We could n't be on bleepers and bloopers , '' he laughs .
`` There were n't any outtakes . '' -RRB- .
And he sold it almost as fast .
Distributor Samuel Goldwyn Co. bought the picture almost as soon as it was completed -- and paid off Mr. Townsend 's outstanding credit lines `` immediately . ''
At 30 years old , Mr. Townsend approaches life with a nice mixture of breezy charm and earnest idealism .
Until now he 's been an actor and a stand-up comic , who 's also very funny when he 's sitting down doing impersonations over breakfast .
After doing commercials for Pepsi and IBM and improvisational theater with the Second City troupe in Chicago and Off Broadway in New York , he went to Hollywood .
He 's been featured in movies , including `` A Soldier 's Story '' and `` Streets of Fire . ''
But as `` Hollywood Shuffle '' opens tomorrow in New York and Washington , then in cities around the country , he makes his debut as an all-around talent .
In addition to being the star , director and producer , Mr. Townsend was the special-effects man -LRB- he spritzed his actors in the face with a seltzer bottle to affect sweat -RRB- and the janitor .
Since he could n't afford permits for filming on the street , the movie was literally shot on the run , as actors jumped in and out of vans between takes to avoid getting ticketed .
`` We wrote it as we went along , '' said Mr. Townsend , who wore a T-shirt over a thrift-shop college sweater to an interview .
He explained that the picture began as a series of vignettes that he 'd intended to use as a visual resume to convince studios he could direct .
`` First it was a short , then another short .
Then we decided to add a story. ' A mother !
You need a mother ! ' someone would say .
Then it would be , ' A girlfriend !
You need a girlfriend ! ' ''
What emerged from this creative frenzy is Mr. Townsend 's funny and imaginative -- and loosely autobiographical -- study of the plight of black actors in Hollywood .
Though the makeshift story line sometimes proceeds a little clumsily , `` Hollywood Shuffle '' crackles with high spirits .
In one bit , Mr. Townsend introduces us to `` Black Acting School , '' where white professors prepare Oxford-educated black actors for the roles Hollywood has to offer : contemporary -LRB- pimps -RRB- or classic -LRB- slaves -RRB- .
He 's staged this sequence like the commercials that interrupt the late show `` You , too , can be a computer programmer ! ''
He 's also created his own version of TV movie critics -- two street kids with their own amusing rating system .
`` First of all , I can n't stand movies with titles I can n't pronounce , '' says one .
He shows us actors trained in Shakespeare stumbling over such tryout lines as : `` I IS n't be got no weapon . ''
And he invents a new superhero : `` Ram-bro . ''
The picture bounces along with Mr. Townsend 's merry sense of satire , but it also has a point , which he elaborated on in an interview .
Affecting the overbred tone of a public-radio announcer , he said : `` I 'm tired of saying ' IS n't . '
I simply can n't say ' IS n't ' anymore . ''
Mr. Townsend says he refuses to take parts that he feels are demeaning to blacks .
`` People are n't going to remember you that way .
They will n't say , ' Oh , you were the rapist on ' Hill Street Blues . '
Or , ' Hey , caught you stealing that TV set on ' Cagney and Lacey , ' '' he said .
`` I 'd rather do something else .
If you whore yourself around , people will say you are a whore .
I do n't know where Eddie -LCB- Murphy -RCB- is .
Or Richard -LCB- Pryor -RCB- .
I look at ' Critical Condition ' and think : What is that ? ''
Mr. Townsend grew up in Chicago and lived briefly on welfare after his parents split up when he was a small boy .
His mother then got a job with the post office , where she still works .
Mr. Townsend wanted to be a basketball player , but was diverted into theater by his coach , who preferred Mr. Townsend 's Walter Brennan imitations to his dunk shot .
He began acting in a community theater while he was still in high school .
Later , he dropped out of college to do improvisational theater .
Then , after a few years in New York , he moved to Los Angeles to do improv , and he was cast in `` Streets of Fire . ''
With the money he saved from that picture and `` Soldier 's Story , '' he decided to try his hand at directing .
He financed himself , because nobody else would .
When he ran out of money the first time , he went back to work .
The money from `` American Flyers '' -- then two other films -- carried him to the point where he had no more money and no more jobs .
That 's when the Visa application arrived .
Since then , Mr. Townsend has directed Eddie Murphy 's concert film , which will be released later this year . -LRB- The editing , he says , involved `` getting around profanity and lawsuits and down to an ' R ' rating . '' -RRB-
He 's starred in an `` Amazing Stories '' episode , and he 's making plans for his next feature film .
He wants to do it all -- and why not ?
The man carries plastic and he can improvise .
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORP. said it is offering $ 100 million of its 8 % notes due March 15 , 1997 , priced at par .
The insurance holding company said the notes , which are n't entitled to any sinking fund , are redeemable in whole or in part at the company 's option on or after March 15 , 1994 , at their face amount plus accrued interest .
The offering is being made under a $ 200 million shelf registration filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in February .
Lincoln National said proceeds will be used to pay debt .
Salomon Brothers Inc. is leading the underwriting syndicate .
Lincoln is based in Fort Wayne , Ind .
VALUE LINE INC. said its increase in fiscal third-quarter net income reflected , among other things , distribution of $ 2.9 million in capital gains from mutual fund investments .
The figure was misstated in a previous edition .
-LRB- See : `` Value Line Net Income for Its Third Quarter More Than Doubled '' -- WSJ March 19 , 1987 -RRB-
Floating-rate Euronotes rallied for the second consecutive day , but trading remained volatile .
U.S. bank issues gained as much as one point , more because of short-covering by professionals than investor demand , traders said .
But there were retail buyers for some sovereign issues , which gained 1/4 to 1/2 point .
The gains cheered traders , who had been worried about a market collapse Monday after sharp declines in several successive sessions .
`` The -LRB- floating-rate -RRB- market has n't sorted out all its problems by any means , and there still are some people sitting out there with horrific positions , '' said one specialist for a major U.S. bank .
`` But it 's a slightly rosier picture than two days ago . ''
Now , traders say , floating-rate notes need continued consolidation before they can return to a more solid footing .
Elsewhere , fixed-rate issues remained much less dynamic , mostly ignoring the downward revision in U.S. fourth-quarter gross national product growth to a 1.1 % rate from a 1.3 % rate .
Eurodollar bonds followed the early trend in U.S. Treasury bonds , gaining about 1/8 point .
In new issues , the only major dollar-denominated offering was launched by New Zealand Dairy Board Finance Ltd. .
That issue , totaling $ 100 million of 8 % , seven-year bonds , was made through lead manager S.G. Warburg Securities .
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN JAPAN grew 2.5 % during 1986 .
This was reported correctly in an article in a previous edition , but the accompanying headline incorrectly said that the growth occurred in gross domestic product .
-LRB- See : `` Foreign Insight : Japan Economy Expanded 0.8 % in 4th Quarter --- Growth in GNP During '86 Was Slowest in 12 Years , Amounting to Only 2.5 % '' -- WSJ March 18 , 1987 -RRB-
XTRA Corp. said it agreed to acquire Fruehauf Corp. 's RenTco Trailer Corp. for about $ 70 million .
RenTco leases more than 10,000 truck trailers and had revenue last year of about $ 70 million .
XTRA leases trailers , chassis , containers and railroad cars and had revenue of $ 192.5 million in the year ended Sept. 30 , 1986 .
XTRA said it expects to complete the transaction in April , subject to certain regulatory approvals .
Fruehauf 's management and other investors acquired the Detroit company in a leveraged buyout last year .
The company makes and services transportation equipment and parts .
Pacific Resources Inc. said it agreed definitively to acquire for $ 32 million all of Royal Dutch/Shell Group 's Shell Oil Co. unit 's Hawaiian operations .
The oil refiner and marketer said the pact calls for it to acquire Shell 's 39 retail gas stations , its four petroleum product terminals and its marketing and distribution operations in the state .
The stations will continue to operate under the Shell brand , as will 25 other owner-operated stations , with Pacific Resources supplying gasoline from its refinery in Hawaii .
A spokeswoman said Pacific Resources , which markets gasoline in the Pacific region and the western U.S. , bought the Shell operation because it wants to sell more of its refinery output in its home market .
Trus Joist Corp. said it agreed to acquire closely held Dashwood Industries Ltd. , a Centralia , Ontario-based maker of wood windows and patio doors .
Terms were n't disclosed .
Trus Joist , a specialty building-material maker , said it expects to complete the acquisition by June 30 .
It said the Canadian concern has annual sales of $ 25 million to $ 50 million .
Three former brokerage executives who previously settled securities-fraud charges involving Brooks , Weinger , Robbins & Leeds Inc. , a New York brokerage , were also charged with criminal contempt in the case .
The three were among several individuals and the brokerage firm who in January settled related civil charges by the Securities and Exchange Commission , without admitting wrongdoing .
The SEC had charged Brooks Weinger and the former executives with securities fraud in the 1983 underwriting of three new issues by what the SEC said was a predecessor firm .
Named in the new criminal-contempt charges were : Marvin Hamburger and William P. Satnick , former vice presidents of the purported predecessor firm , Brooks , Hamburger , Satnick Inc. , and Jan E. Brooks , former president of both Brooks Weinger and Brooks Hamburger .
They were charged with violating a 1981 injunction against future SEC violations by making allegedly fraudulent statements regarding one of the three new issues in 1983 , American Technology Management Corp. .
Individuals accused by the SEC commonly settle the charges by agreeing to an injunction against future violations .
Future violations are then punishable by contempt proceedings .
Kathleen A. Warwick , head of the SEC 's New York regional office , said this criminal-contempt action -- the third filed by the New York office over the last year -- indicates the `` seriousness with which the commission views disobedience of injunctive orders . ''
Among other things , the SEC charged , the three men violated securities law by telling various `` penny stock '' publications -- including Penny Stock Preview , and Cheap Investor -- that American Technology was entering the field of treatment of sexually transmitted diseases of the immune system .
The SEC said the company 's prospectus noted , instead , that it was engaged primarily in financial consulting services .
According to Miss Warwick , each of the men agreed when they settled the civil charges in January that they would later plead guilty to one count of criminal contempt .
Maximum sentence on such charges without a jury trial is six months imprisonment or a $ 5,000 fine .
Ira W. Berman , an attorney for the three men , said the SEC charges were `` not worth defending , '' so his clients agreed to settle them .
The three must enter their pleas next Tuesday , before federal Judge Charles L. Brieant .
The SEC described American Technology as a dormant company with no operations or assets ; the initial offering in 1983 was rescinded by the agency .
In settling the civil charges , Messrs .
Hamburger , Brooks and Satnick were barred from the U.S. securities industry for five years , five years and four years respectively , the SEC said .
Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co. reported that fiscal fourth-quarter net income climbed 9.7 % over the year-earlier period , aided by two recent supermarket acquisitions .
For the quarter ended Feb. 28 , the supermarket company , which is 52 % owned by Tengelmann Group of West Germany , had net income of $ 20.7 million , or 55 cents a share , compared with $ 18.9 million , or 50 cents a share , in the 1986 fourth period , which ended Feb. 22 , 1986 .
Excluding $ 5.3 million of tax credits in the year-earlier period , operating profit rose 53 % in the latest quarter .
Sales rose 48 % to $ 2.34 billion from $ 1.58 billion .
The latest results include two recent acquisitions : New York-based Shopwell Inc. , a 53-store supermarket chain the company acquired in August 1986 , and Waldbaum Inc. , a 139-store supermarket chain based in Central Islip , N.Y. A&P acquired a 95 % stake in Waldbaum in December .
For the full year , A&P 's net income rose 7.6 % to $ 95 million , or $ 2.50 a share , from $ 88.3 million , or $ 2.33 a share , in fiscal 1986 .
The 1987 earnings include $ 26 million of tax credits , compared with $ 32.2 million of tax credits in 1986 .
Sales rose 18 % to $ 7.83 billion from $ 6.62 billion .
James Wood , chairman and chief executive officer , said that A&P , which now operates 1,200 stores , has completed the first year of a three-year , $ 345 million capital program of constructing new stores and remodeling existing stores .
In composite New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday , A&P shares closed at $ 30.75 , up 25 cents .
Dixons Group PLC won control of Cyclops Corp. , ending for now a bidding battle for the Pittsburgh-based company .
London-based Dixons , an electrical appliance retailer , said Cyclops holders tendered 2.3 million shares , or 54 % of the 4.3 million shares outstanding , under a previously reported offer to buy all shares for $ 90.25 each , or $ 384 million .
The offer expired at 12:01 a.m EST yesterday .
Coupled with Dixons 's existing stake , the tender boosted the company 's holding in Cyclops to 56 % .
In spite of the successful tender offer , a rival group of bidders led by Audio/Video Affiliates Inc. said it will press ahead with efforts to acquire Cyclops .
`` We have not quit yet , '' said Stuart Rose , Audio/Video 's chairman and chief executive officer .
The Audio/Video group launched a surprise $ 80-a-share offer for Cyclops last month-two weeks before Cyclops agreed to be acquired by Dixons .
Last week , the group offered to sweeten its offer to $ 92.50 a share under certain conditions , including a stipulation that Cyclops provide it with the same confidential financial data given to Dixons .
Cyclops said it did n't consider the proposal an offer .
Mr. Rose , whose group includes Citicorp Capital Investors Ltd. , a Citicorp unit , said he expects to make an announcement within a day or two regarding future action .
`` To get beaten in a bidding war is one thing , '' Mr. Rose said .
`` But to lose because the company would n't open its books and put all bidders on the same level playing field means shareholders are not getting what they deserve for their stock . ''
Dixons , in light of the modest margin of victory , waived an earlier condition of its offer that 80 % of shares outstanding be tendered .
With a majority stake , the British company said it is entitled to designate a majority of Cyclops directors and to subscribe to an additional 5.4 million shares that have been authorized but not issued .
The focus of both suitors is Cyclops 's Silo Inc. retailing division , which operates a nationwide chain of 100 appliance and consumer electronics stores .
Audio/Video is a Dayton , Ohio-based consumer electronics retailer .
As part of Dixons 's agreement , the British company plans to retain Silo and sell Cyclops 's specialty steel and nonresidential construction assets to a unit of Alleghany Corp. , a New York-based insurance and steel concern , for about $ 111.6 million and the assumption of certain Cyclops under-funded pension plans .
Alleghany intends to spin off the unit , MSL Industries Inc. , to holders before MSL acquires the steel and construction assets from Dixons .
MSL would assume the name Cyclops and retain Pittsburgh as its corporate headquarters .
The Alleghany transaction is subject to certain conditions , including regulatory clearance .
John Gilbertson of Morgan Stanley & Co. , which advised Dixons in the transaction , said the Cyclops shares that were n't tendered will be converted into the right to receive $ 90.25 a share upon completion of the merger .
He said Morgan Stanley expects completion of the merger in two to three months .
If the Audio/Video group is unsuccessful in halting the merger , Cyclops 's long search for a buyer will end .
Shareholders rejected a leveraged buyout proposal by senior management last year , and proposals to buy the company 's steel and construction businesses have also failed .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Cyclops closed at $ 89.50 , down 87.5 cents .
Champion Parts Rebuilders Inc. said Echlin Inc. , its largest supplier , bought 600,000 newly issued Champion common shares and warrants permitting it to purchase 300,000 shares at $ 9.20 each .
The shares and warrants were purchased for $ 5.4 million , the auto-parts rebuilder said .
Echlin is an auto-parts maker based in Branford , Conn. .
Champion said the new shares increase its shares outstanding to about 3.1 million , giving Echlin the equivalent of a nearly 20 % stake .
Proceeds will be used to reduce long-term debt , Champion said .
It added that the friendly purchase will add some stability to the company , which has had hostile investors recently buy stakes in the company .
In national over-the-counter trading yesterday , Champion closed at $ 11.75 , up 12.5 cents .
For Verlyn Klinkenborg it was a dream come true .
The New York Times raved about his first book , `` Making Hay , '' a 160-page paean to family farming in the American heartland .
It was the kind of review that sends people flocking to bookstores .
But in this case , few would-be readers could find it .
`` Making Hay '' was published by Nick Lyons Books in New York , the type of small specialty publishing house that is all but ignored by the nation 's big retail book chains .
But Nick Lyons , the company 's founder and president , has a knack for finding other outlets for his books .
Take the NAPA Auto Store in Rock Rapids , Iowa .
Why an auto-parts store stocks a stack of books on hay farming is easily explained .
`` Verlyn is a nephew of mine , of course , '' says the store 's owner , Kenneth K. Klinkenborg .
To give folks in Rock Rapids an opportunity to buy the book , Mr. Klinkenborg used to drive 32 miles to Sioux Falls in his pickup truck to buy copies , paying the full $ 14.95 retail price .
It did n't bother him that he did n't make a cent reselling them to his customers .
`` I 'm just trying to get as many books sold as I can , '' he explains .
When Mr. Lyons got wind of this , he offered to sell Mr. Klinkenborg copies at 40 % off the cover price , even if he ordered only six books .
The arrangement pleases the author 's uncle , who says , `` We sold about 10 or 15 already , and they let me make a little money , too . ''
So it goes in the backwaters of book publishing , where 15,000 small publishers stay afloat , or even turn a comfortable profit , by catering to quirky or limited interests and doggedly pursuing every last sale .
They operate with a gritty resourcefulness unheard of -- and unnecessary -- at the 300 or so big trade-book publishing houses that produce roughly 60 % of the 50,000 new titles appearing each year .
`` The most serious problem for a small publisher is persuading the chains to open an account , '' Mr. Lyons says .
But chain stores have little incentive to buy 50 or 100 copies of a single title from outfits such as his .
John Dessauer , the director of the Center for Book Research at the University of Scranton in Pennsylvania , explains : `` The cost of opening an account for one title is going to be more than any profit from the book . ''
Yet small publishers provide a rich variety , printing books on odd subjects , giving unknown authors a voice and resurrecting out-of-print titles .
Howell Book House Inc. of New York has been successfully publishing books about dogs for 26 years .
Its mainstay is a line of 60 books , each devoted to a different breed .
`` We are the Tiffany of dog publishing , '' says Sean Frawley , the president .
Occasionally , a tiny publisher hits pay dirt .
Ten Speed Press in Berkeley , Calif. , published `` What Color is Your Parachute ? '' in 1972 .
The career-planning book became a runaway best seller a few years later and still sells briskly .
Nick Lyons Books has n't yet produced a blockbuster .
But then , most of the roughly 20 new titles it brings out each year concern fishing or the outdoors-books that , Mr. Lyons concedes , `` few others are interested in publishing . ''
The people who publish Sidney Sheldon or Judith Krantz are n't gnawing their knuckles because Mr. Lyons beat them to `` Angling Entomology : A Primer for Fly Fishermen . ''
But Mr. Lyons has been successfully publishing such fare for more than 20 years , first for other publishers and , for the past four years , as head of his company .
Though revenue was a meager $ 447,000 for the year ended last March 31 and is headed toward $ 800,000 in the current fiscal year , his company has n't run in the red or needed to borrow .
For Mr. Lyons fishing is more than a publishing specialty , more than a pastime he writes about gracefully in a column in Fly Fisherman magazine .
When it comes to fishing , he says , `` I am a lunatic . ''
The $ 100,000 seed capital to start his company came from seven well-heeled fishing cronies who are minority stockholders .
Mr. Lyons owns 51 % of the stock ; active partner Peter Burford , 31 , who joined him after a stint at Crown Publishers Inc. , also holds an interest .
Publishing so-called backlist books that are kept in print for years on end has some advantages over publishing best sellers .
A good fishing book will never match a Jackie Collins novel in total sales .
But it will outlive her racy fiction , with its fickle readers .
Publishers will dump most of this year 's best sellers on `` remainder '' tables next year , where they may fetch as little as $ 1 apiece .
Nick Lyons does n't put any of his titles on the remainder heap because most just keep on selling .
A number of Nick Lyons books have sales increases each year `` without any work on our part , '' he says .
He adds , `` It 's like having an annuity , and each year 's new titles are added to the income stream .
Occasional clinkers do creep in .
A $ 5.95 paperback parody of university literary reviews has sold a paltry 250 copies since 1984 , leaving 3,250 unsold and about $ 3,500 in unrecovered costs .
`` This is n't the kind of mistake we could afford to make every day , '' says Mr. Burford , who is responsible for production .
Small publishers can turn a profit selling as few as 1,000 copies of a book .
They operate with a frugality unknown at big publishing houses , whose annual lunch tabs could keep a small firm going for a year .
The printing and promotional budget for all 16 new books in the Nick Lyons spring catalog is only $ 65,000 .
A big house spends that for one book deemed to have modest sales potential , and spends millions more for a blockbuster .
A typical author 's advance from Nick Lyons Books is $ 1,500 , a sum that `` would embarrass a big house , '' Mr. Lyons says .
But it means the writer is eligible for royalties that much sooner .
`` Our authors earn money as their books earn money , '' he says .
Mark Sosin , the author of more than a dozen fishing books , says that although he has received heftier advances for books published by big houses , they did n't sell as well as those published by Nick Lyons .
`` Anybody can publish , '' Mr. Sosin says .
`` Marketing is another story .
Nick has come up with some unusual marketing ideas . ''
The University of Scranton 's Mr. Dessauer , a veteran industry observer , agrees .
`` The trade-book publishers do n't know what to do with specialized books , '' he says .
`` Often they only market to the bookstores , and if the stores do n't buy a book , the hell with it . ''
It is not in Nick Lyons 's nature to shrug off sales .
Twenty years ago , while working at Crown Publishers , he realized that bookstores were n't the best outlets for fishing books .
As a result , 95 % of the books bearing his logo -LRB- a trout leaping over the firm 's initials -RRB- are sold elsewhere : in fishing-tackle stores , mail-order catalogs , and , of course , that auto-parts store .
The `` L.L. .
Bean Fly Fishing Handbook , '' which has sold some 30,000 copies and is in its 12th printing , is his best-selling title .
`` We try to use common sense , '' Mr. Lyons says .
`` We ask ourselves who will be interested in these books . ''
For `` Grizzly Country , '' it was readers of Bear News , a publication of the Great Bear Foundation in Missoula , Mont .
The foundation used an excerpt of the book in its newsletter , which has 3,000 subscribers .
Later , Mr. Lyons arranged for the foundation to buy the book at wholesale to resell to its members .
Lance Olsen , the foundation 's president , says : `` It sells good .
It 's a classic . ''
At times , Mr. Lyons departs from formula , as when he published actress Rita Gam 's memoir , `` Actress to Actress , '' last fall .
The manuscript , rejected by other publishers , found its way to him at a time when he was seeking something different .
`` I think you can do too many fishing books , '' he says .
Miss Gam made the rounds of the talk shows , including the `` Today Show , '' to plug the book .
And it became the first Nick Lyons book to be carried by the B. Dalton chain .
It has sold more than 3,000 copies , is in its second printing and has made money for both publisher and author .
Miss Gam is happy .
Of Nick Lyons Books , she says : `` They did anything a larger publishing house could do for me . ''
The book , she adds , led to her first movie role in years , in the upcoming thriller `` Twisted , '' starring Sally Kellerman .
But with hindsight , Mr. Lyons thinks the book was too far afield for his company .
`` We do n't have the flash to do justice to this kind of book , '' he says .
`` And we do n't want to have the flash . ''
A group including Sun Equities Corp. , a Far Hills , N.J. , holding company , cut its Computer Memories Inc. stake to 6.2 % and intends to sell the rest .
The group had disclosed earlier this year that it planned to seek control of Computer Memories .
A spokesman for Computer Memories declined to comment .
Computer Memories shares fell 25 cents , to $ 3.625 , in national over-the-counter trading yesterday .
A House Banking subcommittee approved legislation limiting credit-card interest rates and requiring uniform disclosure of card terms and conditions .
The bill , approved by voice vote , now goes to the full Banking Committee for consideration , where attempts to weaken it are likely .
The interest-rate limit was added to the legislation in an amendment sponsored by the subcommittee chairman , Frank Annunzio -LRB- D. , Ill. -RRB- , on a 5-2 vote that followed party lines .
Under the provision , credit-card interest rates could n't rise more than eight percentage points above the return on one-year Treasury bills , and the ceiling would be adjusted each quarter .
Using that formula , the current limit would be 13.8 % .
The average bank-card interest rate nationwide now is 17.8 % , according to an industry newsletter , and 18.1 % , according to Federal Reserve Board data .
Cards with no interest charges , such as American Express cards , would have to disclose information about their annual fees .
Current federal law requires that a consumer receive such information only when a card is issued .
Mr. Annunzio 's interest-rate ceiling was defeated in the subcommittee last year , and attempts to remove the provision from the current legislation are likely when the full committee considers it .
A Fed study published earlier this year concluded that interest-rate limits would lead card issuers to raise other charges , such as annual fees , and tighten credit requirements .
Noting that virtually all other consumer interest rates except those on credit cards had dropped , Mr. Schumer argued that giving more information when a consumer applies for a card would make the marketplace work more efficiently .
`` Disclosure can make the marketplace work once and for all , '' he said , `` and bring interest rates down the most desirable way -- through true and full competition . ''
Testifying for the American Bankers Association , David Hunt , executive vice president of Bank of Virginia , Richmond , Va. , told the lawmakers that the requirements in Mr. Schumer 's bill were `` fraught with too many flaws that create confusing and complex problems for both consumers and card users . ''
The banking industry favors a measure sponsored by Rep. Doug Barnard -LRB- D. , Ga. -RRB- that would require the disclosure of a card 's interest rate and annual fee in direct-mail solicitations only .
Legislation containing uniform disclosure requirements similar to those in Mr. Schumer 's bill has been introduced in the Senate by Connecticut Democrat Christopher Dodd , chairman of the Senate Banking Subcommittee on consumer affairs .
The Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee unanimously passed legislation that would give states financial bonuses if long-term welfare recipients find and keep jobs .
The committee 's action is a major step toward welfare overhaul , a top priority on the domestic agenda of both Congress and the administration .
The bill , introduced last month by Chairman Edward Kennedy -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , would give states an average bonus of nearly $ 3,700 for each former recipient who remains employed over a three-year period .
The funds would come from the money saved by removing the former recipients from welfare rolls and would not be paid until the savings were realized .
Liberals and conservatives are reaching compromises over the once-disputed areas of work and welfare savings .
When Sen. Kennedy introduced the bill , the conservative Heritage Foundation said the liberal senator `` is making a serious and important contribution to the debate . ''
Robert Rector , a Heritage policy analyst , said `` the Kennedy proposal strikes a chord with many of the themes in Ronald Reagan 's new welfare reform strategy . ''
President Reagan 's proposal would permit greater welfare experimentation by the states .
The president 's plan , like the Kennedy legislation and other plans being promoted , is designed to lessen dependency on welfare .
Rep. Harold Ford -LRB- D. , Tenn. -RRB- , chairman of the House Ways and Means subcommittee on public assistance , was scheduled to introduce legislation today that could require recipients to participate in education , training or work activities and would expand certain supportive services .
Widespread dissatisfaction with current programs and the nation 's budget deficit have spurred the compromises on welfare .
Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch , the ranking Republican on the labor panel , called Mr. Kennedy 's bill `` a new approach that would be helpful . ''
`` Without imposing new mandates or requirements on the states or the private sector , this bill creates new opportunities , '' Mr. Hatch said .
`` Without spending millions in new money , this measure can help states train and place long-term welfare recipients . ''
Sen. Kennedy praised the unanimous bipartisan approval and said the bill `` creates a strong , positive incentive for states to train and employ long-term welfare dependents . ''
During the first year of employment for a former recipient , the state would receive 75 % of the benefit that would have been paid to the person had he or she still received Aid to Families with Dependent Children , the main welfare program .
That figure drops to 50 % and 25 % in the second and third years .
After the three years , the average bonus per recipient would be nearly $ 3,700 .
The legislation is aimed at those who have been on dependent children or refugee assistance for two continuous years and those recipients who are under 22 years old and have not completed high school .
The committee accepted an amendment that would include in the target groups the recipients of Social Security disability payments .
Under another amendment , designed to ensure federal budget neutrality , states could receive bonus payments only when their job-placement rates exceed a baseyear level .
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. said it will spend $ 809 million to redeem all but 1.2 million of its publicly held preferred shares to cut financing costs .
The redemption of 15.5 million shares , by May 1 , will cut $ 50 million in annual dividends , AT&T said .
The telecommunications concern has been reducing high-cost debt in the past year or so ; yesterday 's announcement will bring debt and preferred stock reductions to $ 2.5 billion since the beginning of 1986 .
Last year , annual fixed charges were cut $ 200 million through debt and preferred stock reductions , AT&T said .
Analysts saw the most recent share redemption as an effort to cut financing costs as AT&T also cuts operating costs through job reductions and facility consolidations .
The company has warned , however , that cuts in operating costs will n't boost earnings much this year .
`` If you do n't have the managerial clout in the short term '' to boost earnings , `` you use financial clout , '' said Robert Morris , an analyst with Prudential-Bache Securities Inc. .
He noted that companies in many industries have reduced financing costs as interest rates have fallen .
S. Lawrence Prendergast , an AT&T vice president and treasurer , said dividends saved through the preferred share redemption will boost AT&T 's earnings about 2 1/2 cents a share annually , given that the company will use cash , and that its investments currently yield about 6 % .
Analysts estimated the effect on earnings would be about two cents a share .
Last year , AT&T earned $ 139 million , or five cents a share , after accounting for a $ 1.7 billion restructuring charge .
Mr. Prendergast also said he thought AT&T 's preferred share redemption was probably the biggest of any company , noting that AT&T was one of the biggest issuers of such stock in the early 1970s , when these shares were issued .
He said AT&T has about $ 1 billion of debt at interest rates between 8 3/8 % and 9 % that is callable at a premium , but the company does n't have any current plans to call it .
The company has debt between 11 % and 12 7/8 % that is n't callable , he said .
AT&T said it will redeem 600,000 shares of its $ 3.64 preferred issue for $ 50 each , and 7.3 million shares of that issue for $ 52.18 a share , under terms of the issue .
AT&T said it will also redeem 7.6 million of its $ 3.74 preferred shares for $ 52.35 each .
The record date for determining shares to be redeemed is March 26 , AT&T said .
After redemption , 600,000 shares of each issue will remain outstanding ; AT&T has the right to redeem all those shares for $ 50 each by May 1 , 1988 , the company said .
AT&T also declared quarterly dividends on both issues of preferred and declared a quarterly dividend of 30 cents a share on its common shares , payable May 1 to stock of record March 31 .
Separately , Standard & Poor 's Corp. affirmed its double-A rating on AT&T preferred shares and debentures and its A-1plus rating on the company 's commercial paper .
About $ 7 billion of long-term debt is affected , S&P said .
Major law firms ' billing rates are soaring , reflecting the dual impact of last spring 's bidding war for top law-school graduates and a boom in demand for the firms ' services .
On Wall Street , senior partners at a number of firms this year raised their hourly rates to $ 350 from $ 300 .
Rates for the firms ' less-experienced lawyers rose by an even larger percentage in many cases .
Indeed , lawyers fresh out of school and now working at the big firms bill as much as $ 100 an hour , up about 12 % .
Other large firms around the country are rushing to follow suit .
Paul Hastings Janofsky & Walker in Los Angeles , for instance , has increased some rates by as much as 19 % .
Billing rates are substantially lower outside New York , but the percentage increases in certain categories are bigger .
`` A lot of law firms are holding the lid on senior partners ' rates , because that 's the number most noticed by the clients , '' says Stephen Glasser , publisher of a legal newsletter , Of Counsel .
`` But the firms are pushing through much larger increases in rates for junior partners and associates , which are not so obvious . ''
Law firms say they are raising rates partly to cover the cost of vastly higher salaries and sign-up bonuses for new recruits , who now command as much as $ 90,000 a year to start .
Because most firms adhere to a lock-step compensation system , the increase in starting salaries has forced the firms to dole out raises for hundreds of other lawyers to preserve the salary differential .
Overhead has soared as a result .
Other factors are at work , too .
Fearful of raids by rivals that could cripple important departments , some firms are trying to buy the loyalty of key partners with hefty bonuses .
Administrative and operating costs are rising sharply , especially for necessities such as computers and malpractice insurance .
And to serve clients with far-flung interests , many firms are moving to establish international practices .
Opening offices in major cities around the country and overseas requires substantial capital .
But heavy demand for top firms ' services is also allowing fees to rise .
A huge increase in litigation and the recent wave of corporate restructurings has prompted firms to complain that they can n't hire lawyers fast enough to keep up with the crush of work .
`` These are boom times for the legal community , '' says Ed Kaufman , a partner with Los Angeles-based Irell & Manella , which posted revenue of $ 40 million last year , up 20 % from 1985 .
Mr. Kaufman notes a marked increase in demand for specialists in employment law in California , where scores of companies face wrongful-discharge lawsuits filed by former employees .
Demand for the services of firms with expertise in environmental , patent and tax law is especially high , too .
Aside from grumbling , corporate clients are doing little to resist the rise in rates .
Years ago , most companies established in-house legal departments to take care of routine legal matters .
Nowadays , they seek outside counsel only for big lawsuits or highly specialized matters like bankruptcy law or tax law .
`` The billing rate is only half the equation , '' says Guy Zoghby , counsel for the information systems group at International Business Machines Corp. .
`` You have to consider the hours it takes to resolve the problem and the results you achieve .
This is not a commodity we 're talking about , and cheaper is not necessarily better . ''
Often , Mr. Zoghby points out , a company can save money on its legal bills by hiring a specialist who can dispense with the problem in far less time -- and with better results -- than a general practitioner .
Anyway , quibbling over fees in a crisis is rare because , as law firms happily point out , desperate clients usually do n't study the bill .
By hiring a law firm with a national reputation , `` the CEO can n't blame me if we get clobbered in court , '' a corporate general counsel says .
`` I hire the biggest name and pay them what they ask .
I 've got to protect myself . ''
Allen Cleveland , senior vice president and general counsel of Conoco Inc. , says companies ' in-house lawyers are under a lot of pressure to contain costs these days .
`` But in a bet-the-company situation like Texaco-Pennzoil , '' he says , `` you 're going to give everyone a blank check . ''
Among the most prominent names in high-stakes litigation is Skadden , Arps , Slate , Meagher & Flom in New York .
The 700-lawyer firm , which is highly respected for its expertise in takeover law , recently raised its rates as much as 25 % . -LRB- See accompanying chart . -RRB-
Skadden notes that it had n't raised rates in two years .
But a spokesman also concedes that its hourly rates are merely `` a starting point . ''
Skadden and many other big firms that specialize in large transactions frequently charge clients a premium for work on matters that are especially difficult or that require around-the-clock attention .
In such cases , it is n't unusual for clients to pay double or triple the regular hourly rate .
Says Peter Mullen , a Skadden partner : `` There are some clients who want per-hour calculations , but not many .
Most of them just say , ' I want results . ' ''
Indeed , it is rumored that some firms in New York at times dispense entirely with lengthy bills and detailed per-hour calculations .
Clients reportedly get a one-page bill on which is written a single line .
It begins `` For Services Rendered '' and ends with a lot of zeros .
Only a handful of law firms can afford to be so arrogant .
In fact , outside the ranks of the majors , many small and midsized law firms are now struggling to stay afloat .
Over time , their market has eroded as corporate clients have taken routine matters in-house and assigned serious problems to big firms .
But the smaller firms still face rising costs .
Several law firms have collapsed in recent months : Sage Gray Todd & Sims , one of the oldest on Wall Street , and Memel , Jacobs & Ellsworth in Los Angeles .
Other firms have been forced to merge .
The increases in billing rates by the majors may further roil an already unstable market .
Armed with additional capital , industry specialists say , the top-tier firms will be able to raid smaller rivals more easily , dangling big-money offers before the small firms ' superstars .
Moreover , many expect the technological gap between the groups to continue to widen .
Many major firms are investing heavily in state-of-the-art computer and telecommunications systems that enable them , for instance , to research legal issues faster and more completely .
The financially strapped smaller firms are unable to invest in the technology that could make them more efficient and competitive .
`` You 're seeing the emergence of the haves and the have-nots in the legal profession , '' says Ward Bower of the legal consulting firm Altman & Weil in Haverford , Pa. .
`` The gap is growing every year . ''
Everyone is worried about where the Securities and Exchange Commission 's `` insider-trading '' cases are headed .
We 've warned that the vague definition could be used to punish anyone who has more information than someone else , a recipe for market disaster .
We 're not alone .
The people who best know the mind-set of the agency 's lawyers are the SEC 's economists .
And they are going public with their horror over the SEC 's enforcement strategy .
The Office of the Chief Economist last week presented the lawyers down the hall with a study titled , `` Stock Trading Before the Announcement of Tender Offers : Insider Trading or Market Anticipation ? ''
The economists warned that busting arbitragers and bankers should n't be used to chill the legitimate market for information .
Market anticipation of takeovers , reflected in price rises before tenders are announced , is almost entirely based on factors aside from illegal insider trading .
The study was aimed squarely at SEC legal chief Gary Lynch .
In the name of `` equal information , '' Mr. Lynch has said he 'll go after insider trading until there is no more run-up in share price before the announcement of a tender offer .
Gregg Jarrell , who was the SEC 's chief economist until he recently left to teach at the University of Rochester , told us he warned Mr. Lynch that run-ups do not necessarily mean insider trading .
`` When Gary sees the price creep up , he sees evil , '' Mr. Jarrell says .
`` I see the ferreting out of valuable information as a sign of the efficient market . ''
Dormant conflicts within the SEC erupted with this study .
The enforcement division managed to block publication of the study 's planned appendix titled , `` The Law of Insider Trading . ''
Written by Jeffry Netter , a lawyer on the economics staff , the appendix began , `` The legal definition of illegal insider trading is somewhat ambiguous . ''
It went on to say that `` what should be remembered at the outset is that most trades involving asymmetric information do not violate insider trading laws . ''
This was too hot to handle because it showed that the SEC 's flat-out attack on `` nonpublic '' information is legally groundless .
The study the SEC actually allowed to be made public supports the economists ' view .
The report identified three major causes of pre-bid trading .
These are rumors reported on the Dow Jones ticker and in this newspaper , the size of the bidder 's `` foothold '' acquisition and whether the takeover was hostile or friendly .
A study of 172 big takeovers between 1981 and 1985 showed these factors led to a run-up before the formal bid of nearly 40 % of the premium price .
This was not surprising .
Consider the following :
-LRB- See accompanying illustration -- WSJ March 19 , 1987 . -RRB-
This graph shows the average run-up before the public announcement of tender offers between 1962 and 1978 .
This ground-breaking study by efficient-market , random-walk economists at the University of Chicago jibes completely with the more recent findings of the SEC economists .
The following graphical bird's-eye view shows the mischief of Mr. Lynch 's aggressive stance against information :
The Efficient Market .
The price movements of a hypothetical stock shows how depressed share prices rise as traders learn that a family that owns a publicly traded company has begun to bicker , or see heavy trading on the computer tapes .
By the time the raider reaches 5 % and files its 13D with the SEC , the market understands something is going on .
The price keeps rising until the bid succeeds or is dropped .
Gary Lynch 's Market .
Compare this with the market as Mr. Lynch would apparently have it .
Here the enforcers at the SEC have accomplished the goal of takeover bids taking the market completely by surprise .
Equal information means no information .
No one learns any information before anyone else , even through legitimate research .
The share price is flat up to the announcement of the tender offer .
The 90-degree angle shows the perfect absence of market forces to point to the true value of shares .
Costs of Noninformation .
Overlaying the efficient market with Gary Lynch 's market shows the costs to market efficiency if the SEC ever managed to end price run-ups .
The shaded area measures the misallocated capital .
The shares are really worth more , but no one -- not arbitragers or pension-fund managers -- knows it because the SEC makes knowing more than someone else an indictable offense .
The SEC economists concluded that trying to end the price run-up is dangerous .
`` Legitimate research gives some traders informational advantages and their earnings serve as compensation for their efforts , '' the report says .
Their trading `` aligns actual stock prices with their theoretically correct values , improving the allocation of scarce capital between competing uses . ''
Fully `` Lynched '' Market .
If Mr. Lynch is serious about equal noninformation , he might be surprised by what he actually would get if the SEC completely chilled information gathering .
Investors would flee the markets .
We hope one irony will n't be lost on Mr. Lynch -- the downward slope of share prices would be completely vertical except that the information market would by then no longer be efficient enough to funnel even this valuable information very quickly into the market .
Mr. Lynch can assure the markets that his prosecutions will n't go this far by supporting a definition of insider trading that protects all non-stolen information .
Until he does , it 's clear the SEC 's economists have a better understanding of markets than do its lawyers .
Money Market Deposits-a 5.31 %
Six-month Certificates-a 5.86 %
Thirty-month Accounts-a 6.46 %
U.S. Savings Bonds-b 6.06 %
a-Average rate paid yesterday by 100 large banks and thrifts in the 10 largest metropolitan areas as compiled by Bank Rate Monitor .
b-Current annual yield .
Guaranteed minimum 6 % .
Combine the tax advantages of a partnership with the liquidity of a publicly traded stock , and the result is a master limited partnership promising high yields .
But while such partnerships are one of the hottest new investment twists , the returns may fall far short of what investors expect .
The reason , analysts say , is that investors are focusing too much on yield , ignoring whether the underlying business can really support such high payouts .
`` There are some very attractive MLPs out there with good appreciation potential , '' says Oscar S. Schafer , general partner at Cumberland Associates , a New York investment-management firm .
But others , he says , `` are wildly overpriced . ''
Master limited partnerships made their debut with oil-and-gas offerings in 1981 , but any company can be organized or reorganized into such a partnership .
New offerings have come in industries as diverse as restaurants and nursing homes , shopping centers and cable TV , forest products and mortgage banking .
Excluding oil-and-gas offerings , there were 34 such partnerships valued at about $ 5 billion at the end of 1986 , twice the year-earlier figures , according to Robert A. Stanger & Co. , a Shrewsbury , N.J. , firm that tracks partnerships .
The partnerships are able to pay high yields , in part , because they are n't subject to corporate income taxes -- the partners pay individual taxes on their share of the profit .
A plus for some individuals is that gains are often classified as so-called passive income , which can be offset with passive tax-shelter losses under the new tax act -- at least under current Treasury Department interpretations .
Investment bankers specializing in such partnerships say that in order to be competitive an issue must offer a current return of 9 % to 10 % .
But a partnership with a current annual yield of 9 % may not actually return that much to investors when changes in the value of the underlying assets are taken into account .
Indeed , as the accompanying table shows , yield and return can be very different , depending on the partnership 's structure and its effect on underlying assets .
`` The best advice is to forget the yield , '' says Daniel R. Lee , an analyst at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. .
`` These securities are n't bonds , they represent an equity interest in the assets of a business , and they should trade on cash flow -- and whether that cash flow is growing . ''
The biggest pitfall for an investor who is distracted by yield and ignores the nitty-gritty details -- many of which are buried in footnotes of long and complex offering documents -- is taking on substantial risks without realizing them .
`` The problem is that his MLP may be a wasting asset , and he may not know it , '' warns Anne E. Mengden , an analyst at Salomon Brothers Inc. .
In a `` wasting-asset '' partnership , the declining value of the underlying assets offsets the payout , reducing the total return and sometimes even eroding an investor 's principal .
Whether a partnership has declining assets may be obvious -- as with oil and gas offerings based on depleting petroleum reserves .
But any partnership that lacks sufficient cash flow to cover its distributions presents the same problem for investors : Over time it will at least partially liquidate itself to sustain its current yield .
As a result , investment bankers and analysts say , scrutinizing the source and stability of the funds used for distributions is essential .
It 's also important to evaluate each partnership 's own particular business situation and prospects .
In the end , those active in the field note , it is these factors that will determine the partnership 's ability to sustain a high current yield .
Take two different cases where a company converts to a master limited partnership but otherwise continues to operate as before .
In a mature company , a big rise in its payout to investors after conversion may simply signify that it has become a cash cow and that management prefers to distribute the money rather than invest in new businesses or risk a takeover .
On the other hand , if the company is still vibrant and expanding , paying out the high level of cash flow required to make the partnership attractive may come at the expense of future growth ; the company probably should be reinvesting that income in the business instead .
One rule of thumb Mr. Lee suggests in valuing master limited partnerships is to compare them with corporations in similar businesses , looking at the ratio of market capitalization to cash flow after interest expense .
A slightly higher valuation should be allowed for the partnerships because of their advantageous tax status .
Mr. Lee also distinguishes between captive partnerships -- in which the general partner still has control through a sale-leaseback arrangement -- and freestanding ones .
An example of a captive partnership is the one offered last year by Burger King Corp. , which bundled up $ 85 million of real-estate leases .
New franchises after the offering were n't included , which means the value of the partnership 's leases may not fully share in Burger King 's growth ; in fact , partnership outlets could end up in competition with new franchises .
`` Down the road , free-standing MLPs should do better because there 's no conflict of interest and their growth rate is likely to be higher , '' says Mr. Lee .
Even when a partnership appears to be a healthy , free-standing enterprise , it may be borrowing from the future to pay the present with subtle financial tricks .
One example is a partnership that is heavily financed with zero-coupon debt .
This helps increase cash flow and yield in early years because interest payments are deferred until the securities mature .
But those chickens come home to roost .
`` If you put a lot of zero financing in , there may not be any money left over to return to investors after the debt 's paid , '' warns Ms. Mengden of Salomon Brothers .
In other cases , fees to the general partner may be subordinated in the early years .
But if cash flow does n't increase enough to cover those accumulating obligations , they may have to be paid for by cutting future payouts .
External risks must be considered , too , because unlike regular partnerships , master limited partnerships are subject to the vagaries of the stock market .
`` An MLP might intrinsically be a great asset value , but you do n't know what the stock market is going to be like when you want to get out , '' Ms. Mengden says .
An attractive , sustainable yield would help defend an offering 's price in a bear market .
But analysts say other risks arise becathe market is new and dubious offerings have been floated with the gems .
`` If several deals turn bad , '' says l' s Mr. Lee , `` it may sour the market 's attitude toward MLPs nerally. ''
Effects of changin thtructure of a master limited partnership with 100 millonassets and a 9 % annual yield .
International Business Machines Corp. 's dismal 27 % decline in 1986 profit prompted pay cuts for its top four executives last year .
IBM 's proxy statement for the 1987 annual meeting disclosed a 3.2 % cut in cash compensation paid to IBM 's chairman and chief executive officer , John F. Akers , and 9 % cuts for his three lieutenants .
The statement also shows that the political pressure on IBM for its South Africa ties has n't eased entirely , despite IBM 's move to withdraw from the country .
Mr. Akers received cash compensation of $ 711,900 last year , down from $ 737,715 in 1985 and far below the more than $ 1 million earned by his predecessor , John R. Opel , in 1984 , IBM 's peak earnings year .
Cash compensation for Vice Chairman Paul J. Rizzo , one of the lieutanants , fell to $ 652,576 last year from $ 721,525 in 1985 .
The proxy statement also shows that the compensation of the other two lieutenants , senior vice presidents Dean P. Phypers and George B. `` Spike '' Beitzel , dropped 9.6 % and 9.3 % respectively to $ 563,597 and $ 551,342 .
Both men retired from IBM earlier this year .
The proxy statement indicates pay fell an average of 9 % for IBM 's top 70 or so executives in 1986 , when profits declined for the second year in a row -- the first back-to-back retreat for the computer maker since the Great Depression .
`` Since the senior executives are directly accountable for the profitability of the company , their annual cash incentive fluctuates based on attainment of '' earnings targets , the statement says .
In addition to his cash compensation , Mr. Akers was awarded 3,025 IBM shares , valued at $ 442,406 based on yesterday 's closing stock price of $ 146.25 , for his performance in 1985 -- when earnings fell .
He will receive those shares upon retirement .
In 1985 he received fewer shares , 2,713 , for his work as president and chief operating officer in 1984 -- when earnings soared .
The stock price was off 87.5 cents in New York Stock Exchange composite trading .
The other three top executives received fewer shares in 1986 than the year before .
Of the four , only Mr. Akers got new stock options in 1986 -- for 19,202 shares .
On the South Africa issue , the proxy statement says a number of church groups plan to ask shareholders to approve a ban on computer sales to the country .
Though IBM has pulled out of South Africa , selling its subsidiary there to an employee trust , the company continues to export computers to its former unit .
IBM is opposing the resolution .
The Treasury plans to raise $ 9.25 billion of fresh cash next week by selling $ 25 billion of two-year , four-year and seven-year notes to redeem $ 15.72 billion of maturing two-year and four-year notes .
The department 's quarterly `` mini-refunding '' operation will include the following note sales :
-- $ 10 billion of two-year notes to be sold next Tuesday .
They will be dated March 31 , and will mature March 31 , 1989 .
-- $ 7.75 billion of four-year notes to be sold next Wednesday .
They will be dated March 31 , and will mature March 31 , 1991 .
-- $ 7.25 billion of seven-year notes to be sold next Thursday .
They will be dated April 1 , and will mature April 15 , 1994 .
The two-year notes will be available in minimum denominations of $ 5,000 , and the other notes in minimum denominations of $ 1,000 .
Bids must be received by 1 p.m. EST the days of the respective auctions at the Treasury or Federal Reserve banks or branches .
Alfred Lerner , a financial and real estate executive who started out as a furniture salesman , boasts between puffs on a fat cigar that he keeps a low profile .
`` I 'm not Joe Tycoon , '' he says , and apologizes for the smoke .
For the most part , 53-year-old Mr. Lerner has done a good job keeping his head down .
Until this week , that is , when he disclosed in a Securities and Exchange Commission filing that he and a minority partner , Peter B. Lewis , bought a 9.6 % stake in AmeriTrust Corp. for $ 81.1 million .
Mr. Lerner is chairman and controlling stockholder of Equitable Bancorp. , a Baltimore-based bank holding company , and chairman and chief executive officer of Realty ReFund Trust , a Cleveland-based real estate investment trust .
Mr. Lewis is chairman and chief executive officer of Progressive Corp. , a Cleveland insurance holding company specializing in high-risk auto and motorcycle coverage .
Messrs .
Lerner and Lewis are not members of the city 's establishment , and suddenly the banking and business community here is asking itself what lies ahead for AmeriTrust Corp. , whose lead bank , AmeriTrust Co. , is the bank of the area 's blue-chip companies and was Ohio 's largest until it was topped by holding companies more aggressive in acquisitions .
In his expansive office with a panoramic view of Lake Erie , Mr. Lerner , the son of a New York candy store owner , shrugs off the notion that he intends to personally operate AmeriTrust Corp. .
He also will n't say whether he intends to purchase the rest of the company 's shares , valued at about $ 968.2 million .
`` It 's a passive investment .
Passive investors do n't do anything but act passive , '' he says , smiling .
He will n't say how or when he will cash in his AmeriTrust stake .
`` There 's absolutely no pressure .
We could be there for an hour to 100 years . ''
Most of the speculation revolves around the attractiveness of AmeriTrust to an out-of-state bank seeking a foothold in Ohio .
Wall Street reacted to the news of Mr. Lerner 's stake by sending the price of AmeriTrust stock up $ 8.50 since the SEC filing .
It closed yesterday at $ 51.50 , up 50 cents , in national over-the-counter trading .
`` He 's probably holding it -LRB- the stake -RRB- to see what orchestrates , '' says Edward B. Brandon , president of National City Corp. , another bank holding company based here .
`` Naively you can say AmeriTrust has a new holder that has n't asked for anything , '' says Mr. Brandon , who is an acquaintance of Mr. Lerner 's .
`` But it raises questions about its ultimate control . ''
Mr. Lerner said in the SEC filing that he intends to buy additional AmeriTrust shares .
Other bankers here speculate that if he gets a controlling position at AmeriTrust , he will seek a suitor for the Ohio bank , possibly a major New York bank .
AmeriTrust , which has total assets of $ 11.1 billion , has a commanding 36 % of Cleveland-area deposits , a strong capital structure and good relationships with leading area businesses .
Its dominance of the Cleveland market would make it difficult for any of the other major Ohio bank holding companies to take over AmeriTrust because of banking regulators ' concerns .
Mr. Lerner , through a limited partnership called Maybaco Co. , owns 33 % of the common stock of Equitable Bancorp. , which has total assets of $ 4.4 billion , but has a 63 % voting stake because of his holdings of a Class B stock .
He is proud of the rise in return on common shareholder equity to about 18 % last year from 7.4 % in 1982 , the year after he obtained control .
`` I like the banking business , '' he says .
`` It 's not the easiest thing , but it 's not the world 's hardest thing either '' to show improved profits in banking .
But AmeriTrust has a respectable earnings record already .
Return on shareholder equity last year was 11 % , and its 1.03 % return on average assets was higher than Equitable 's 0.94 % .
Mr. Lerner began his business life as a road salesman for furniture manufacturers .
His territory included Cleveland , where he became intrigued with real estate .
Beginning with $ 8,000 in the mid-1960s , he accumulated substantial holdings of apartment buildings .
He still has major investments in apartments here and in the Baltimore area .
His first public enterprise was Realty ReFund Trust , which specializes in refinancing established office buildings and other properties .
He also owns Reafund Advisors Inc. , the REIT 's financial adviser .
Realty ReFund Trust began selling stock to the public in 1971 .
Mr. Lerner is using the name Clevebaco for the AmeriTrust partnership .
He acknowledges that the similarity to the Maybaco name used in the Baltimore acquisition arises from superstition .
`` It worked the first time , so it might work again , '' he says .
His prominence at Cleveland Browns football games , which he regularly attends , arises from superstition too , but not his own .
`` He 's as indispensable as Bernie Kosar -LRB- the quarterback -RRB- , '' says his friend Art Modell , the team 's owner , who keeps Mr. Lerner at his side as a good luck charm .
However , the charm works only so long as Mr. Lerner does n't light his cigar , says Mr. Modell .
President Reagan , reviving a U.S. commitment to combating acid rain , announced he will ask Congress to approve a new $ 2.5 billion , five-year plan to deal with the problem .
The measure represents an attempt to please Canada before President Reagan 's summit in Ottawa next month with Canadian Prime Minister Brian Mulroney , who yesterday praised the plan as `` an important and helpful step . ''
U.S. environmentalists attacked the proposal , however , calling it misguided because it earmarks funds for research on new technology rather than using current technology , as West Germany has been doing , to reduce sulfur emissions through existing equipment such as `` scrubbers . ''
The plan closely follows recommendations that were made last spring by envoys from the U.S. and Canada , and endorsed by Messrs .
Mulroney and Reagan .
Despite that endorsement , Mr. Reagan 's budget proposal for acid-rain programs in fiscal 1988 originally was far lower than the Canadians had hoped .
The new plan will seek to spend $ 500 million a year for the next five years to fund innovative projects that would reduce sulfur emissions from coal-fired power plants .
For fiscal 1988 , the administration will ask Congress to approve another $ 300 million above the $ 50 million in the January budget proposal .
These funds would be in addition to the $ 150 million already approved by Congress for fiscal 1988 , which begins next Oct. 1 .
Private industry also will be asked to spend at least the same amount on innovative pollution-control technology , according to the president 's statement yesterday .
In addition , Mr. Reagan directed Energy Secretary John Herrington to establish an advisory panel of state , federal and Canadian officials to select which projects will be funded .
Vice President George Bush 's regulatory relief task force will review federal and state regulatory programs to examine tax and other incentives that can assist in the emission-control efforts , the statement said .
The efforts are aimed at controlling the problem of acidic rain , snow or fog that results after pollutants are emitted from electric power plants , factories and automobiles .
Canadian officials praised the new proposal but said they would prefer that the U.S. establish an actual emissions-control program that would curb sulfur emissions by 50 % .
Michael McCloskey , Sierra Club director , charged that the new spending `` will not reduce acid rain by a single drop '' because it is for research rather than actual emission control .
He called the plan `` a smokescreen to obscure the administration 's opposition to acid rain control . ''
CATHAY PACIFIC AIRWAYS LTD. of Hong Kong , which is 50.3 % -owned by Swire Pacific Ltd. , said 1986 profit rose 59 % , to the equivalent of $ 157.7 million -- a record -- from $ 99.3 million a year earlier , converting the Hong Kong dollar at its current rate .
The figure was above the carrier 's prediction , made when it went public last May , that profit would be at least $ 128 million .
Revenue rose 20 % , to $ 1.16 billion from $ 963.9 million .
CIE. GENERALE D' ELECTRICITE of France is planning to raise the equivalent of about $ 980 million , `` plus or minus 15 % , '' through a share offering that will coincide with its denationalization in May , financial sources said .
The sources said CGE , which has interests in telecommunications , cables , energy and shipbuilding , has long been undercapitalized .
The funds will be used partly to finance the group 's participation in a telecommunications joint venture it formed recently with ITT Corp. of the U.S. CGE is expected to be put on the market May 11 .
SUN HUNG KAI & CO. , a Hong Kong securities company , said profit rose 80 % in 1986 , to the equivalent of $ 15.6 million from $ 8.6 million a year earlier , converting the Hong Kong dollar at its current rate .
Sun Hung Kai is owned chiefly by a group of Hong Kong businessmen and Hong Kong 's Fung family .
Earlier this year , Merrill Lynch & Co. of the U.S. sold its 25 % stake in the company to a group of Hong Kong and foreign investors .
Merrill Lynch & Co. said it is investigating loans of more than $ 1 million made by its London banking unit to a member of an investor group that included Israeli financier David Sofer , who was accused by the U.S. government last week of being a central figure in a massive insider-trading scheme .
Merrill Lynch said it is seeking to determine whether the loans are linked to the alleged insider trading by Mr. Sofer and a former top Merrill official in London .
A spokesman for Merrill Lynch in London said the company is conducting `` a full internal investigation '' of two loans totaling more than $ 1 million that Merrill Lynch International Bank Ltd. made to Michael J. Floersheim , a member of the Sofer group .
The group reported the loans in December 1985 , when it completed the purchase of a large stake in Ampal-American Israel Corp. , a New York finance company that invests in Israel .
The Sofer group waged a hostile but unsuccessful proxy fight last summer for seats on Ampal 's board of directors .
Last week the Securities and Exchange Commission charged Mr. Sofer and Nahum Vaskevitch , Merrill 's former head of mergers and acquisitions in London , with masterminding a huge insider-trading scheme that yielded more than $ 4 million in illicit profits .
The SEC charged that the scheme began in late 1984 , a year before the Sofer group reported the Ampal purchases , which were partly financed by the Merrill Lynch loans .
The dissident Ampal group 's filings with the SEC say Merrill made the loans to finance purchases by Mr. Floersheim , a close associate of Mr. Sofer .
Mr. Floersheim , a wealthy Swiss metals trader , is described in the Ampal group 's SEC filings as the sole shareholder of Plenmeer Ltd. , a corporation the group used to make part of its Ampal purchases .
Plenmeer also was named a defendant in the SEC action .
The SEC charged that Plenmeer was the vehicle for many of Mr. Sofer 's alleged inside trades , which the commission said were based on leaks from Mr. Vaskevitch about takeovers in which Merrill played a role .
The SEC said Mr. Floersheim refused to testify in its insider-trading investigation and , as a Swiss resident , could n't be subpoenaed .
Mr. Floersheim has n't been charged with any wrongdoing .
Among the things Merrill is trying to determine is whether Mr. Vaskevitch had a role in obtaining the loans for Mr. Floersheim and the circumstances under which the loans were granted .
Merrill officials said the loans have been repaid , although they could n't immediately say when .
The Ampal proxy fight involved many of the same people mentioned in the SEC insider-trading complaint .
Besides Mr. Sofer and Mr. Floersheim , the insurgent shareholder group included Louis Barnett , a Fort Worth , Texas , investor and close associate of Mr. Sofer .
The SEC did n't charge Mr. Barnett with any wrongdoing , but its court papers contended that he funded and made profits from some of Mr. Sofer 's alleged insider trades .
The Ampal purchases were n't mentioned in the SEC suit .
The group bought about 25 % of Ampal 's common and 16 % of the company 's Class A stock , spending about $ 7 million in all .
In its SEC filings , the group said Merrill lent Mr. Floersheim $ 908,500 for one purchase of Ampal stock , and an unspecified amount toward a separate $ 2.6 million purchase .
The Merrill Lynch official in London said the two loans totaled more than $ 1 million .
The group is believed still to hold its Ampal stake , part of which has dropped in value by about 20 % .
In American Stock Exchange trading , Ampal Class A stock closed yesterday at $ 2 , compared with the dissident group 's approximate average cost of $ 2.50 a share .
Ampal common is n't publicly traded .
The Merrill Lynch official in London said the bank `` brought an end to the relationship '' with Mr. Floersheim when it discovered its name in the Sofer group 's SEC filings in the U.S. .
Although Merrill Lynch knew the loans were being made to finance Ampal share purchases by Mr. Floersheim , the official said Merrill was originally unaware that the purchases would be used to support a proxy fight .
`` We do n't finance hostile actions toward companies and we were pretty upset when our name came up '' in the filings , he said .
He added that the loans were fully collateralized by Mr. Floersheim .
Messrs .
Sofer , Vaskevitch and Floersheim did n't return calls seeking comment .
Ampal is controlled by Bank Hapoalim , one of Israel 's largest banks .
The insurgent shareholder group did n't directly state its reasons for the proxy fight in its SEC filings , but a letter from Mr. Barnett to Ampal 's president after the fight suggested that Ampal split into two companies , reduce its overhead , and become more entrepreneurial .
Lawyers for Messrs .
Sofer and Barnett would n't comment on the Ampal proxy fight and Merrill Lynch 's role in it .
Lawmakers took their first shots in what is likely to be a battle to make the Federal Communications Commission 's fairness doctrine a law .
`` We are moving forward today to assure -LRB- the doctrine 's -RRB- continuation , '' said Sen. Daniel Inouye , -LRB- D. , Hawaii -RRB- , chairman of the Commerce Committee 's communications panel , during hearings on a bill he co-sponsored to codify the doctrine .
The doctrine , which requires broadcasters who air controversial topics to give opponents the chance to respond , has become entangled in a regulatory , legislative and judicial thicket .
Last fall , a U.S. appeals court panel ruled that the fairness doctrine was n't a law , freeing the FCC to repeal it .
Later , FCC Chairman Mark Fowler indicated he would like to eliminate the doctrine , which he views as unconstitutional , before he resigns this spring .
Mr. Fowler 's sentiments have spurred Congress into action .
In the Senate , Commerce Committee Chairman Ernest Hollings , -LRB- D. , S.C. -RRB- , introduced a bill to codify the doctrine .
The measure was co-sponsored by Sen. Inouye and Sen. John Danforth , -LRB- R. , Mo. -RRB- , the committee 's ranking minority member .
`` Mark Fowler wants to leave us a going-away present , '' Sen. Hollings said at the hearing .
`` I 'm not going to accept it . ''
In the House , Commerce Committee Chairman John Dingell , -LRB- D. , Mich. -RRB- and telecommunications subcommittee chairman Edward Markey -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- are expected to introduce a similar bill soon .
At the hearing yesterday , Mr. Fowler called the doctrine `` an enemy of free speech '' because broadcasters shy away from controversial topics , fearing they may be required to give away valuable airtime .
`` Editing is what editors are for and government has no right in second-guessing their judgment , '' he added .
Former FCC Chairman Charles Ferris , though , said the doctrine assured that minority viewpoints get airtime .
`` It 's part of an obligation of broadcasters , so the big and powerful will n't dominate , '' he said .
Sen. Robert Packwood , -LRB- R. , Ore. -RRB- , a staunch opponent of the fairness doctrine , raised the possibility that the doctrine could be extended to such newspapers as the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal , which use satellite communications to produce their newspapers .
The Supreme Court has held that newspapers are exempt from government-mandated fairness regulations .
Even if Congress codifies the fairness doctrine , the matter is n't likely to be dropped .
In 1969 , the Supreme Court upheld the fairness doctrine , largely because there then was a `` scarcity '' of broadcast frequencies and outlets for differing viewpoints .
But the court has n't decided whether such scarcity still exists , given the explosive growth of media outlets .
Canadian Pacific Ltd. said it is seeking buyers for its Maple Leaf Mills Ltd. unit , a Toronto-based agricultural products concern .
The sale of Maple Leaf , which earned $ 16.3 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- last year on sales of $ 819 million , would be the third major divestiture by Canadian Pacific since last fall .
The company said the planned sale is part of its `` continuing program to restructure and simplify its mix of businesses . ''
In October , the transportation and industrial holding concern sold its 52.5 % stake in Cominco Ltd. , a Vancouver-based lead and zinc producer , for $ 472 million .
In December , it agreed to sell Canadian Pacific Air Lines to Pacific Western Airlines for $ 300 million , a transaction that was completed recently .
`` It 's further evidence that these guys are in the midst of a major reorganization , '' Wilfred J. Hahn , an analyst with Bache Securities Inc. , Toronto , said of Canadian Pacific 's proposed sale of Maple Leaf Mills .
Canadian Pacific had been criticized in the past for its concentration on cyclical industries including oil and natural gas , forest products , steel products and mining .
Based on Maple Leaf 's recent profits , Mr. Hahn estimated Canadian Pacific could receive `` well over $ 200 million '' for it .
That could mean a sizable special gain for Canadian Pacific , as Maple Leaf is on Canadian Pacific 's books at an estimated $ 155 million , he said .
Maple Leaf Mills produces flour for industrial and commercial uses , baked goods and poultry and is involved in rendering .
It also markets livestock and poultry feeds and distributes grain through a network of elevators .
It is active in Canada and the Caribbean .
Harold Wolkin , an analyst with Nesbitt Thomson Deacon Inc. , Toronto , said that even though Maple Leaf is a stable , profitable business , it `` sits alone in the CP conglomerate .
It is n't transportation and it is n't resources . ''
Mr. Wolkin welcomed the proposed sale as another positive step in refocusing Canadian Pacific and making it more profitable .
He estimated that Maple Leaf could be sold for upward of $ 300 million .
Canadian Pacific said it retained Wood Gundy Inc. , a Toronto-based investment dealer , to seek buyers .
NATIONAL EDUCATION CORP. asked shareholders to approve a doubling of authorized common shares and certain limits on the personal liability of directors .
In a proxy statement , the Irvine , Calif.-based training and publishing company proposed increasing the number of authorized common shares to 50 million from 25 million .
The company , which currently has about 14.5 million common shares outstanding , said it believes it is prudent to have additional shares available to raise capital and make acquisitions and stock dividends .
National Education said it does n't have any current plans to issue new shares .
SAN DIEGO GAS & ELECTRIC CO. asked holders to approve anti-takeover provisions .
In a proxy statement for its annual meeting , the utility proposed requiring a vote of holders of two-thirds of the shares to approve any merger with a company or group that controls more than 10 % of the company 's stock .
The requirement would be suspended if the merger is approved by two-thirds of directors , or if the acquirer pays all holders the same price per share that was paid in accumulating its initial stake .
The utility also proposed to boost authorized common to 170 million shares from 80 million .
About 55.8 million shares are currently outstanding .
A federal judge placed the city 's primary cement and concrete workers union under trusteeship .
The action had been sought by the government , which had alleged the union was dominated by organized crime .
Union officials agreed to the trusteeship in a consent judgment , a move they said avoided lengthy litigation .
Trusteeship was part of the aim of a suit filed last summer by the U.S. attorney in Manhattan under the Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act .
U.S. Attorney Rudolph Giuliani characterized the order as `` a major milestone '' in the government 's drive to address organized crime 's influence in New York 's construction industry .
The trustee , a lawyer who has yet to be named , is to oversee certain operations of the 4,000-member District Council of the Cement and Concrete Workers , Laborers International Union of North America .
In addition , 13 current and former officers of the district council and the 1,400-member Local 6A were permanently barred from holding office in either entity ; three others were barred for the length of the trusteeship , which is set to run until late 1990 .
In several cases , the officers were barred from even belonging to these unions , though none of the officers were prevented from taking positions in the three other New York-area locals overseen by the district council .
Overall , the trusteeship is less sweeping than one imposed on the 7,800-member Teamsters Local 560 in New Jersey last June .
In that case , the trustee is effectively running the union .
The New York City trustee , working with the union officers allowed to stay , will have certain rights , including the removal of union officers and shop stewards for organized-crime connections .
While the government said the trustee will have the authority to run union elections , it will n't be involved in the unions ' pension funds or collective bargaining .
Attorneys for the unions said the trusteeship agreement represents a compromise , because control of much of the unions ' activities remains in members ' hands .
While the trustee can veto union expenditures and contracts , he will primarily `` assure the court that union officials are acting within the law , '' according to Stuart Baskin of Kramer , Levin , Nessen , Kamin & Frankel , which represents the district council .
Security Pacific Corp. said it signed a letter of intent to sell 50 % of its Japan Security Pacific Finance Co. unit to Mitsui & Co. Financial details were n't disclosed .
The purchase would create a joint venture the companies said would introduce financial products to the Mitsui group 's customers in Japan .
Security Pacific is a bank holding company , and Mitsui is Japan 's second-largest trading company with an estimated $ 98.7 billion in sales estimated for the year ending March 31 .
It manages more than 150 overseas offices .
In the past year or so , Mitsui has entered the financial services field , to help offset the effect on the company of the yen 's appreciation against the dollar .
Mitsui set up financing operations in the U.S. and Australia last year , and its Mitsui & Co. International -LRB- Europe -RRB- unit recently was converted to a financing company .
Japan Security Pacific Finance , with assets of about $ 200 million , has operated in Japan since 1978 .
Like all foreign consumer finance companies in Japan , it encountered severe competition from domestic concerns .
Only Security Pacific , Citicorp and Associates Corp. of North America withstood the competition and retain such operations in Japan .
Security Pacific said the joint venture would provide consumer and commercial loans and leases and would market other financial products and services .
Included in those services will be loans to finance promissory notes for trading transactions , stock purchases and even for memberships in golf clubs , which can cost more than $ 100,000 in Japan .
The bank holding company said it would provide the joint venture with its experience in consumer and commercial lending , as well as data-processing support .
In addition , Japan Security Pacific expects Mitsui to introduce potential customers for lending and other operations .
Xerox Corp. said that it has stopped selling personal computers for general use and that it is selling the units only as part of a desktop publishing system .
Xerox 's departure from the stand-alone personal computer business follows years of lackluster results .
Xerox 's supplier , Ing .
C. Olivetti & Co. of Italy , has said it shipped Xerox just 35,000 IBM-compatible personal computers in 1985 and 30,000 in 1986 .
In addition , because of the proliferation of low-priced IBM clones , analysts said Xerox 's profit margins on the business have been minimal to nonexistent .
`` They just never became a factor in the business , '' said Eugene Glazer , an analyst at Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. `` Right from the very beginning , they 've failed . ''
Xerox 's early work station , called Star , `` was a brilliant technical concept that has been incorporated into Apple 's Macintosh and many other systems .
Xerox just did n't know how to do that , '' Mr. Glazer added .
Under the change , the Stamford , Conn.-based office-equipment and financial-services company will focus its marketing efforts on its Ventura software package , a highly regarded product that brings to the IBM-compatible world the sort of desktop-publishing capability that has helped make Apple Computer Inc. 's Macintosh popular .
When buying Ventura , customers will have the option of also buying personal computers , printers and various service packages , with Xerox putting the pieces together into a turnkey system .
Mr. Glazer said Xerox 's unit shipments will drop under its new strategy , but said that total revenue from personal computers should change little because the publishing system will cost more .
He said Xerox 's profit margins should improve because of the additional , more profitable items Xerox is including in the system .
A Xerox spokesman said the move , which took effect last month , is merely `` an evolution of the systems strategy '' and does n't mean Xerox is getting out of the personal computer business .
He said Xerox has always positioned the units in `` a systems setting '' as part of its office-equipment product line .
The spokesman said Xerox is still negotiating with personal computer suppliers on an agreement to replace the one with Olivetti that expired at the end of last year .
`` We continue to look at a number of options , '' including a renewed agreement with Olivetti , he said .
Tacitly acknowledging that sales have been slower than expected , he added that `` we have enough inventory to last through any period of time . ''
The great credit-card war may finally be breaking out .
Despite widespread predictions that free-market forces would one day force major banks into an all-out rate battle for card holders , issuers have long hung on to a fragile truce -- and charged interest rates averaging about 17.8 % , far above the cost of other forms of credit .
Consumers have basically gone along : One recent study concluded that a quarter of the nation 's 82 million card holders did n't know how much interest they were paying .
But the truce is in serious jeopardy : American Express Co. has launched a new revolving charge card , called Optima , that will undercut most Visas and MasterCards by initially offering a comparatively low 13.5 % rate on outstanding balances .
Distressed , Visa USA Inc. urged some of its bank clients to stop selling American Express traveler 's checks .
The American Express foray comes at a critical time .
Yesterday , the House Banking Subcommittee on Consumer Affairs approved a bill calling for better disclosure of credit-card terms and limiting interest rates to eight percentage points above the return on one-year Treasury bills ; based on that formula , the credit-card rate ceiling would be about 13.8 % .
Proponents of such legislation say American Express has aided their cause .
Optima `` is our first major break , '' says Rep. Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat who has frequently criticized card rates .
Banks still defend the steep rates , citing the expense of administering millions of card transactions a week , but their ability to hold the line is being eroded by a number of forces .
The 1986 tax law will gradually eliminate the deductibility of credit-card interest payments , and the boom in home-equity loans , which remain deductible in many cases , could force card issuers to chase harder after customers .
Sears , Roebuck & Co. 's Discover card , started in 1985 , has sparked other retailers ' interest in challenging banks for credit-card business .
And some states are threatening to impose interest-rate ceilings .
Although few banking experts expect rates to fall much right away , many say the tide has turned against banks trying to cling to their high charges .
At the very least , they believe that well-heeled consumers with good credit will soon benefit substantially from lower rates targeted specifically at them .
And changing consumer attitudes , spurred by a groundswell of consumer activism , may prod banks into much broader concessions .
`` The jig may be up for a lot of bankers who want to keep rates as high as they are now , '' says Gary Burton , who heads credit-card operations for Liberty National Bank & Trust , Oklahoma 's biggest card issuer .
`` Competition is catching up with us . ''
Hustling for consumers is a game that banks would rather avoid -- especially now .
For years , credit cards have been one of their main profit centers , helping offset damage from bad loans and competitive incursions by other lenders .
Banks say the high cost of administering credit-card loans largely explains why most card rates have dropped only slightly from their 1982 peaks despite a 14-percentage-point decline in the prime rate , the basic lending rate to businesses .
Card issuers also want the higher rates to help absorb losses from sometimes-sloppy card underwriting .
American Express itself has had its problems ; for example , it issued a credit card to Shamoo the cat , the house pet of two Floridians who allegedly used the card and other American Express cards to bilk the financial-services giant out of $ 80,000 .
Even a modest rate war could cost banks dearly .
Charles Russell , Visa USA 's president , estimates that even if American Express gets only a quarter of the 10 million holders of upscale premium cards to throw out their bank cards in favor of Optima , the banks would lose $ 1 billion in interest income and $ 125 million in fees .
In a full-scale rate war , the lost profits would be far higher .
So far , banks have been able to build their card portfolios without much price competition by focusing on marketing gimmicks .
For example , Citibank offers Citidollars , glorified Green Stamps that can be traded for briefcases , watches and other items .
Sears uses a similar `` bonus point '' system to push its Discover card .
Preapproved credit lines , low-cost insurance and other frills have been thrown in routinely over the years .
First Deposit National Bank , of Tilton , N.H. , has been soliciting customers with a mailing that pitches a $ 5,000 line of credit , an immediate cash loan to pay off other cards and a speedy approval process .
In fine print , the interest rate is revealed : 21.9 % .
Most consumers have n't been very bothered by the rates they are charged .
For one thing , many card users pay their bills promptly and thus do n't incur any interest charges anyway .
And even people who do borrow on their cards have tended to focus on things such as the size of their monthly payments .
A study by Bank Credit Card Observer , an industry newsletter , says that 25 % of card holders do n't know their card rates and that 60 % believe that most banks charge about the same rates .
`` I have no idea how much my interest rate is , '' says Suzanne Carver , a Chicago housewife , as she paws through her purse to check her card .
`` It does n't say on here .
Well , as long as I can buy things with it , who cares ? ''
Banks that have tried to lure customers with low rates have n't set off any stampedes .
When Central Bank , of Walnut Creek , Calif. , tried to lure new business last summer by paring its rate to 17.76 % -- more than three percentage points below the California average -- consumers yawned .
`` In four months , we spent $ 250,000 for advertising and increased our accounts from 24,000 to 26,000 , '' says Dennis Buesse , a senior vice president .
`` People just did n't care . ''
The $ 1.2 billion bank wound up selling its portfolio and dumping its card business altogether .
Leo Shapiro , a Chicago market researcher , says the psychological salve that consumers get from owning a card can distract them from worrying about rates or looking for bargain cards .
`` The great modern nightmare is discovering that you 're unrecognized , a nobody , '' Mr. Shapiro says .
`` With that card , you can be surrounded by strangers , but you walk up and say , ' Look what I 've got in my hand . '
Suddenly , you 're a person of importance . ''
But attitudes may be changing .
Consumer Action , an activist group based in San Francisco , says that so far this year it has received 9,000 requests for its list of banks with comparatively low rates -- more than in all 1986 .
It attributes the upsurge to the increased political clamor over high rates and the tax-law change .
Optima may well encourage consumers to get even pickier about credit-card rates .
American Express says it decided to start the card because three years of research showed that revolving credit from other sources was used by almost two-thirds of its card holders , who normally are expected to pay the full amount due on their regular American Express cards every month .
But its research also showed that many card holders would switch to a new card only if offered sharp reductions of four to six percentage points .
A two-point reduction drew little interest in tests .
Holders of the card will pay a $ 15 annual fee -- about mid-range of what most card issuers charge .
Moreover , the interest rate could rise because it is pegged to the prime rate .
Most of the biggest bank-card issuers generally play down the American Express move and the clamor for lower rates .
Citicorp , the biggest bank-card issuer , with over nine million accounts , declines comment .
However , Charles R. Walsh , an executive vice president at Manufacturers Hanover Corp. , which has 3.3 million accounts , says , `` We have been and will continue to compete effectively . ''
And a spokesman for First Chicago Corp. , which will become the third-largest bank issuer of cards when it completes an acquisition later this year , says : `` Those who feel the major issuers charge too much simply do n't understand the business . ''
One reason Optima could reshape the credit-card business is that American Express is the first high-profile card issuer with national marketing muscle to introduce a low-rate card .
Beyond that , its foray into revolving credit -- in which the card holder must make only a minimal payment each month -- further blurs the once-well-defined line between banks and other financial-service companies .
In the case of credit cards , the barriers have muted rate competition because few banks wanted to risk provoking a price war .
`` American Express is the 500-pound gorilla that consumers have been waiting for , '' says Elgie Holstein , the director of Bankcard Holders of America , a Washington-based consumer group .
The company , he adds , `` has the coast-to-coast marketing muscle to go head-to-head with Visa and MasterCard and make interest rates an issue . ''
Some bankers also believe that banks that have considered lower rates may now try to jump on the bandwagon .
The first spoils probably will go to upscale consumers with solid credit records .
Already , signs of a two-tiered approach are cropping up .
Citicorp , for example , recently cut rates for its `` preferred '' customers to 16.8 % .
The rate for everyone else : 19.8 % .
`` Rates will come down in dribs and drabs , and you 'll see it mainly on the preferred side , '' says James McDermott , a banking analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods Inc. .
But the mass market is showing signs of agitation as well .
`` It 's just real distressing to know you 're being gouged , '' says Andy Denemark , a programming director for NBC Radio Entertainment in New York .
He is hoping to replace his 19.8 % card with a cheaper one from a bank in Arkansas or Connecticut .
Ronald Albers , a warehouse supervisor in Dallas , says he has essentially stopped using his credit cards , one of which carries a 22 % rate .
`` That 's just a rip-off , '' he declares .
The tax-law change that phases out credit-card deductions makes the high rates even more painful , but the impact of the change will be softened by its gradual introduction .
The curb on the deduction will be phased in over five years , with 35 % of such deductions disallowed in 1987 , 60 % in 1988 , 80 % in 1989 , 90 % in 1990 and 100 % in 1991 .
Moreover , not all credit-card borrowers will be affected ; Internal Revenue Service data indicate that only 38 % of taxpayers itemized deductions on their 1984 returns .
On the other hand , itemizers tend to be heavy borrowers ; in 1984 , they claimed $ 53.9 billion in interest deductions on loans other than mortgages .
Meanwhile , the booming market in home-equity loans and other new credit plans gives consumers seeking relief plenty of options .
Bruce Bretland , a real-estate broker in Evanston , Ill. , says that partly because of the tax law , he has been leaving his credit cards in his wallet and paying cash .
`` The saying this past Christmas was to go plastic-free .
I think a lot of people have been cutting back , '' he says .
Home-equity loans pose a particular menace to the credit-card business , financial managers say .
The loans -- revolving credit secured by a homeowner 's equity -- often carry interest rates as low as 7.5 % , and much of the interest is still deductible .
The market for such loans is expected to mushroom from about $ 50 billion now to some $ 300 billion by 1990 , and that growth may come largely at the expense of high-priced plastic .
Moreover , two weeks ago , State Street Bank & Trust Co. , of Boston , unveiled what amounts to a home-equity credit card -- a 12.5 % card collateralized by a customer 's home .
`` Many consumers are using equity lines to consolidate their credit cards or to shorten payment periods , '' says Randall Sanada , a financial planner in Chatsworth , Calif. .
`` Banks will have to drop rates to compete . ''
Competitive pressure is also coming from thrifts .
Latecomers in the game , savings and loan associations had puffed up their credit-card loans to $ 6.5 billion by last Sept. 30 , the latest figure available ; that was nearly triple the level two years earlier .
Thrifts such as Chevy Chase Savings Bank in Chevy Chase , Md. , are offering rates as low as 14 % .
Some smaller banks also are luring customers with rock-bottom rates .
Simmons First National Bank , of Pine Bluff , Ark. , barred by state law from charging more than five percentage points above the Fed 's discount rate , charges only 10.5 % interest but still turns a profit .
It does so by being highly selective about whom it issues cards to , by funding the business with cheap local deposits and by taking advantage of its low overhead .
Its card loans have grown more than 30 % in the past year to $ 58 million , with about 60 % of the new accounts coming from out of state , says Thomas Paxton , a vice president .
All told , banks held about $ 91.9 billion in credit-card loans at year-end .
First Chicago derived about 30 % of its $ 272.2 million 1986 profit from consumer loans , mostly credit cards .
But although profits have been good , delinquency rates and writeoffs have reached record levels , in many cases far outstripping banks ' expectations .
For banks with more than $ 300 million of assets , credit-card charge-offs hit a record $ 2.5 billion last year , up 56 % from 1985 .
The most immediate threat to banks ' current card practices , however , may come from angry government officials .
In addition to the action in Congress yesterday , officials in California , Iowa and Tennessee and elsewhere have called for state laws curbing rates .
The treasurer of Illinois tried to punish First Chicago for its high credit-card rates by withdrawing state deposits from the bank .
Meanwhile , some consumers are fighting back on their own .
James K. McEldowney , a Beverly Hills , Calif. , real-estate man who carries 53 credit cards , says he has had enough of West Coast banks charging 21 % ; he got a 10 % card from an Arkansas bank .
Of his other cards , he says : `` One of these days , I 'm going to decorate my wall with them . ''
The Federal Reserve Board gave Chase Manhattan Corp. authority to underwrite and deal in commercial paper through a commercial lending subsidiary .
The decision comes the week after the Senate Banking Committee cleared legislation that includes a one-year ban on federal and state regulators granting banks any additional powers .
Yesterday 's action indicates that the Fed may be willing to decide pending applications while the measure is before Congress .
The Fed had said it would decide by April applications by Bankers Trust New York Corp. , Citicorp and J.P. Morgan & Co. to underwrite commercial paper , mortgage-backed securities , municipal revenue bonds and consumer-related receivables .
Approval of those applications would greatly widen cracks in the half-century-old legal barrier separating commercial and investment banking .
Yesterday 's decision allows Chase Commercial Corp. , an Englewood , N.J.-based subsidiary of Chase Manhattan , to underwrite and trade in commercial paper as a principal , purchasing commercial paper for its own account for later resale .
The Fed 's previous decision involving commercial paper power -- allowing Bankers Trust to place paper through a commercial lending subsidiary -- did n't involve underwriting authority .
Like the Bankers Trust decision , though , the Chase Manhattan decision also directs that Chase Commercial 's gross revenue from its commercial paper activities can n't exceed 5 % of its total gross revenue and that its share of the total commercial paper market can n't exceed 5 % .
Those restrictions are aimed at circumventing a provision in federal banking law that bars banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System from affiliating with any firm that is `` engaged principally '' in underwriting and dealing securities .
A Chase spokesman in New York termed the Fed 's decision `` extremely significant '' because `` it means expanded powers for banks that will lead to increased competition benefiting our customers '' and `` makes for a sounder banking system by allowing banks to diversify their activities . ''
He also said the action `` signals the Fed 's strong belief that change is essential if bank holding companies are to continue to have a vital role in the financial services industry . ''
The Fed 's decision mentions the pending Senate legislation that would ban new powers retroactive to March 6 and extending for one year after the bill becomes law .
The Fed , though , noting that the bill is n't yet law , states that `` the Board believes it must proceed to reach a decision on this application . ''
The Fed warned Chase that if the ban on new powers is enacted , the bank holding company `` may be required . . . to cease its commercial paper underwriting activities . ''
Senate Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire -LRB- D. , Wis. -RRB- wants the ban in order to give lawmakers time to study whether banks should be given more powers .
His original bill gave bank holding companies new securities powers , but he backed down after Democrats on the committee said they were n't ready to decide the issue .
The legislation is awaiting consideration by the full Senate .
Justice Department officials , who maintain that the independent-counsel law has serious constitutional flaws , face mounting criticism from Congress for undermining the law in other ways .
At a first round of congressional hearings beginning today , the department plans to spell out strong concerns that the position of court-appointed independent counsel may violate the separation-of-powers doctrine .
But while providing more detail than in the past about such flaws , administration officials say the department will stop short of flatly saying that the entire law is unconstitutional .
The law in question is the 1978 Ethics in Government Act , which allows the Justice Department to seek counsels to independently prosecute allegations of wrongdoing by high-level federal officials .
The administration apparently hopes to prod Congress to correct any constitutional conflicts in the law without being blamed for undercutting current investigations , such as those involving former White House aide Michael Deaver and the Iran-Contra arms-sale scandal .
The law is scheduled to expire in January unless Congress extends it .
But Sen. Carl Levin -LRB- D. , Mich. -RRB- , chairman of a Senate Governmental Affairs subcommittee that will handle extension of the law , says the constitutional questions are n't the real issue .
He says the Justice Department has been `` covertly . . . undermining '' the law `` by misapplying its provisions and stretching beyond Congress 's will the department 's decision-making authority . ''
Sen. Levin says the department has improperly combined two separate stages of investigation .
The law requires the two stages as part of the process of deciding whether an independent counsel should be appointed .
In the first stage , the attorney general reviews whether he has received allegations that are specific and from a credible source .
If so , the second step gives the attorney general as long as 90 days for a `` preliminary investigation , '' after which he must report to a special court , either requesting an independent counsel or explaining why one is n't needed .
Sen. Levin contends that the department has combined these two steps , hoping to wrap up matters more quickly and avoid reporting to the court in some cases .
Another problem , Sen. Levin contends , is that the department uses the wrong legal standard in deciding whether to ask a court to appoint an independent counsel , making it less likely that the attorney general will request such an appointment .
Sen. Levin says the law requires the Justice Department to determine only whether there are `` reasonable grounds '' to believe further investigation is warranted , but that the department has narrowed that to `` whether there is a reasonable prospect of conviction . ''
Interest in constitutional questions pertaining to the law has increased because of lawsuits filed separately by Mr. Deaver and by Lt. Col. Oliver North , a former national security aide involved in the Iran-Contra affair .
Both lawsuits have been dismissed as premature by federal judges , and the Justice Department , which had requested independent counsels in both cases , has avoided taking any position on the law 's constitutionality .
However , lawyers for Mr. Deaver , who was indicted on perjury charges yesterday , said they would raise the constitutional issues again by seeking dismissal of the charges .
The congressional hearings give the administration a chance to air its longstanding , sometimes vehement complaints about the constitutionality of the law .
But officials said Attorney General Edwin Meese wants to avoid , at least for now , taking a definitive position .
`` We will take a firm position on the constitutionality . . . when that 's necessary in court , but not before , '' said one administration official .
`` If Congress wants to work with us to have a more defensible law , we 're ready to cooperate . ''
On the House side , Rep. Peter Rodino -LRB- D. , N.J. -RRB- , chairman of the Judiciary Committee , is a leader of a bipartisan coalition defending the constitutionality of the law and urging that it be expanded to cover additional White House and Justice Department officials .
`` It 's not in anybody 's interest to have these constitutional issues raised , '' in the midst of the Iran-Contra investigation and other probes , according to Rep. Barney Frank -LRB- D. , Mass. -RRB- , a Judiciary Committee member .
A. William Reynolds , chairman and chief executive officer of GenCorp Inc. , has been reshaping the company to resist a potential hostile takeover bid since he joined it in September 1984 .
Ironically , the assault , when it finally came , caught him on vacation .
After a year of negotiating sales of broadcasting and entertainment properties as part of a restructuring program , Mr. Reynolds left last Friday for an island getaway off the Florida coast .
Yesterday , a company plane whisked him back to GenCorp 's Akron , Ohio , headquarters to discuss strategy after a partnership consisting of AFG Industries Inc. and Wagner & Brown launched a tender offer of $ 2.2 billion , or $ 100 a share , for the company .
Mr. Reynolds , after conferring with investment bankers and lawyers , issued a statement urging shareholders not to make a decision on the offer until March 31 .
He said the board needs time to finish its evaluation and determine `` whether the offer is in our shareholders ' best interests . ''
The offer is scheduled to expire April 15 .
The partnership already holds 2.2 million GenCorp shares , or 9.8 % of the 22.3 million outstanding .
AFG is an Irvine , Calif.-based glass maker and distributor ; Wagner & Brown is a closely held , Midland , Texas-based oil and gas concern .
In an offering circular filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday , the partnership said it intends to sell GenCorp 's aerospace and soft drink bottling businesses to repay part of the borrowings it would use to finance the offering .
The partnership said it planned to keep GenCorp 's tires and plastics and industrial products businesses .
The circular said the partnership would temporarily put GenCorp 's television and radio stations under the control of a trustee while it seeks Federal Communications Commission approval to assume the broadcast licenses .
The trustee would be `` obligated to continue '' GenCorp 's `` current policy '' of disposing of the properties , and settling license disputes connected with some of them , according to the circular .
It is n't clear whether the FCC would approve such an action while the licenses remain challenged .
The partners said they had contributed $ 250 million of equity , arranged bank loans under a $ 1 billion credit agreement with a group of banks led by Wells Fargo & Co. , and secured a $ 1.25 billion bridge loan from Shearson Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. .
Management of GenCorp has been aware for years that the value of the company 's parts is higher than the market value of GenCorp stock .
Unlike neighboring Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. , which thought itself too big and ugly to be a takeover target , GenCorp has been trying to prepare its defenses .
Mr. Reynolds will n't have an easy task if he attempts to thwart a takeover .
GenCorp 's stock soared $ 16 yesterday to close at $ 106.50 in composite trading on the New York Stock Exchange , leading analysts to speculate that other suitors may quickly emerge .
The stock closed Tuesday , before the bid was made public , at $ 90.50 a share , a 52-week high and up $ 2 from Monday .
There also is speculation that the partnership may be seeking `` greenmail , '' a chance to make a quick profit by selling its stock back to GenCorp .
However , a spokesman for the partnership denied any such intent .
`` General Partners -LRB- the partnership -RRB- wants to acquire this company , '' the spokesman said .
GenCorp has been girding for a possible takeover fight for at least five years .
In 1984 , M.G. O' Neil , then chairman and chief executive , restructured the company into four subsidiaries that could be readily spun off to shareholders .
It is n't clear , however , whether that defense will be employed .
But it appears inevitable that the company will be radically restructured if it is n't taken over and dismembered .
Richard Haydon , managing director of Brean Murray , Foster Securities Inc. , estimates GenCorp has a break-up value of about $ 125 to $ 130 a share .
He says `` the crown jewel '' is the Aerojet General unit , which he values at more than $ 1 billion , or about $ 47 a GenCorp share .
`` Aerojet is what makes the whole thing -LRB- a takeover or restructuring -RRB- economically viable , '' he says .
Aerojet is involved in rocket systems , defense electronics and munitions .
Disney , Fidelity , and GenCorp have n't reached a definitive agreement for the sale , according to William G. Simon , Fidelity president .
Mr. Simon said yesterday that he had n't been contacted by General Partners and did n't know if the sale would be affected by the offer .
A Disney spokesman declined to say whether his company was contacted by the partnership .
GenCorp has a definitive agreement to sell its New Jersey TV station , WOR , to MCA Inc. for $ 387 million .
The broadcasting properties have long been regarded as GenCorp 's best defense against a hostile takeover .
Licenses for two of the television stations and all the radio stations are being challenged by groups who charge that GenCorp is an unfit operator .
The dispute includes allegations that GenCorp failed to adequately inform the FCC of allegedly improper campaign contributions and foreign payments .
GenCorp 's core manufacturing businesses , including tires and plastic products , account for about 58 % of the company 's $ 3.1 billion of annual sales .
Separately , the partnership filed suit in a U.S. court in Columbus , Ohio , seeking to void GenCorp 's previously announced `` poison pill '' rights distribution and to stop holders from voting on a proposal for staggered terms for GenCorp directors at the March 31 annual meeting .
As previously reported , the partnership said its tender offer is conditioned upon the cancellation of those anti-takeover measures .
In another development , Standard & Poors Corp. said it placed on its CreditWatch list with negative implications both AFG 's $ 185 million of double-B-plus subordinated debt and GenCorp 's $ 100 million of double-B-plus subordinated debt .
Moody 's Investors Service Inc. also placed the issues under review for a possible downgrade .
S&P said AFG 's `` demonstrated appetite for substantial acquisitions '' and the prospect of higher debt or `` defensive countermeasures '' at GenCorp could hurt the companies ' credit quality .
An AFG spokesman declined to comment on the actions .
JAPANESE LEFTOVERS ?
For the first time , makers may not sell out in the U.S. .
Bulging inventories of Mazda , Subaru and other models cloud Japanese auto makers ' chances of selling all 2.3 million cars that can be shipped to the U.S. in the next 12 months .
Price increases due to the yen 's rise and growing supplies of Japanese models made in the U.S. contribute to the problem .
Japanese imports now claim about 20 % of the U.S. market , but that market is expected to shrink as much as 10 % in 1987 , with competition stiffening .
`` It 's going to be a gut-shoot this year , '' says Toyota Motor Corp. official Jim Perkins .
That prompts Japanese makers to offer incentives and seek market niches .
Nissan Motor Co. brings out a minivan and a four-wheel-drive vehicle .
Mitsubishi Motors Corp. aims at entry-level buyers with a $ 5,200 Korean-built car .
Toyota , sensitive to pricing , tables some proposed high-tech features for new models .
The Japanese may juggle quota allocations for better overall sales , with tiny Daihatsu Motor Co. likely to get an okay to ship its first 10,000 subcompacts .
BRITISH FIRMS ENJOY a Yankee-fueled auto renaissance .
Quality improvements in Jaguar PLC 's new models helped increase U.S. sales of British cars 19 % last year to 26,200 .
Sales could double this year , thanks to Sterling , a joint Honda Motor Co.-Austin Rover Ltd. auto .
Another new entry : an upscale off-road vehicle by Land Rover UK Ltd. .
British auto engineers also are increasing demand for work on expensive , low-volume cars .
General Motors Corp. last year snapped up Lotus PLC and gave it much of the engineering work for the next Chevrolet Corvette .
British concerns did initial work on GM 's 1988 Buick Reatta sports car .
Hawtal-Whiting , a British engineering firm , opens a Detroit office this month .
The British `` train engineers more broadly , '' says Ralph Miller of Modern Engineering Service Co. ; its U.K. affiliate helps with Ford Motor Co. 's 1990 Lincoln .
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION becomes the new battleground in car sales .
As price and quality differences between companies narrow , car makers focus on courtesy and service to compete in a tougher U.S. market .
Buyer happiness `` indexes '' are in vogue for prodding dealers .
Ford used such an index to award Merkur luxury-import franchises ; GM 's Buick division considers making indexes a basis for distributing new models .
Companies are pushing hard because `` no one has a clear competitive advantage in this area , '' says John Middlebrook , head of GM marketing world-wide .
Many dealers protest , but most respond .
To improve back-shop and other operations , many buy shop-streamlining computers offered by GM 's Electronic Data Systems Corp. subsidiary and others .
A Dallas-based cable-TV network aimed solely at dealers adds 200 subscribers a month for its training videos and daily auto-news reports .
Some companies contract with dealers to deliver goodies such as Danish butter cookies to buyers who fill out factory questionnaires about dealers .
IN THE WORKS : Ford market tests plastic spare car keys in credit-card format that can be punched out for emergency use .
DriverGuide , an electronic route finder that provides a detailed printout of directions , will soon be available from Karlin & Collins Inc. , Sunnyvale , Calif. .
PARTY BUSINESS gets a boost from GM 's accelerating white-collar staff cuts .
Club Venetian , near GM 's Warren , Mich. , complex , reports business up about 30 % over a year ago .
`` Now we 're getting into multiple-retirement parties , '' says Manager Lino Borracio .
SHARING PROFIT SHARING ?
United Auto Workers union official Stephen Yokich complains that Ford 's Lincoln-Mercury division wrote workers urging them to spend their $ 2,100 profit-sharing checks on new cars .
`` Save the money , '' he advises .
WARRANTY WARS , hailed as a consumer boon , pose many risks .
Extended power-train and corrosion guarantees lose their marketing edge as each of the Big Three increases coverage .
Once alone in the field , Chrysler Corp. ups its five-year or 50,000-mile power-train guarantee to seven years or 70,000 miles in response to GM and Ford 's six-year or 60,000-mile packages .
J.D. Power , a California analyst , says GM could add $ 100 a car in warranty claims -- a three year cost of up to $ 1.8 billion .
Other analysts warn that consumers could ultimately pay for higher warranty costs through price increases .
The warranties also eat into dealer profits by eliminating lucrative markups for selling extra warranty protection and rustproofing .
Car makers are refashioning these longer guarantees to make them more attractive .
But Ziebart International Inc. , Rusty Jones Inc. and other after-market companies , many dependent on rustproofing for more than half their revenues , must scramble to sell more seatcloth protection and other items .
Japanese makers resist longer warranties .
`` Customers know we have better quality , '' says a Toyota executive .
BRIEFS : The Pontiac Firebird is car thieves ' favorite target , the Department of Transportation says. . . .
The number of cars and trucks on U.S. roads last year rose 3.2 % to 162 million .
Toys `` R '' Us Inc. said it had record quarterly earnings for its fiscal fourth period largely because of good Christmas and post-Christmas sales .
The toy retailer said earnings for the quarter ended Feb. 1 rose 32 % to $ 116.1 million , or 89 cents a share , from $ 88.1 million , or 68 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
Per-share figures reflect a 3-for-2 stock split last June 27 .
Sales rose 28 % to $ 1.18 billion from $ 924 million a year earlier .
On a comparable-store basis , sales rose 13 % .
The company said the fourth-quarter jump was largely because of strong Christmas and January sales .
Michael Goldstein , executive vice president , said the price cutting the company began in January had `` very little effect , '' if any , on fourth-quarter earnings .
The retailer cut prices in January , using the savings it anticipates from lower tax rates as a means of increasing its market share .
Mr. Goldstein said the company hopes the cuts , which it plans to maintain , will help increase earnings in the coming year , but their effect was probably `` very minor '' in the fourth quarter .
Charles Lazarus , chairman and chief executive officer , said 1986 was `` an excellent year for Toys `` R '' Us in terms of sales , earnings and significant market-share expansion . ''
The company last year opened 38 new toy stores domestically and 11 internationally , as well as 20 new Kids `` R '' Us children 's clothing stores .
The new stores bring the company 's totals to 271 toy stores in the U.S. , 24 internationally , and 52 Kids `` R '' Us stores .
The company also operates four department stores .
The retailer said it planned this year to open 45 new toy stores in the U.S. , 13 internationally and 39 more Kids `` R '' Us stores .
Toys `` R '' Us earnings for the year rose 27 % to a record $ 152.2 million , or $ 1.17 a share , from $ 119.8 million , or 93 cents a share .
The retailer noted the year-earlier figures include an inventory credit of two cents a share .
Sales for the year rose 24 % to $ 2.45 billion , from $ 1.98 billion a year earlier .
On a comparable-store basis , sales rose 8.5 % .
The British pound , lifted higher by the momentum of the recent rally in high-yielding currencies , continued to dominate foreign exchange trading yesterday .
Sterling 's rise occured despite cuts in the basic lending rates of British banks yesterday , which resulted in lower yields on pound-denominated deposits .
Traders believed that British interest rates are still much more attractive than those in the U.S. , West Germany or Japan and that the rate cut ultimately will stimulate economic growth in the United Kingdom .
Sterling 's rise was tempered by fears of central bank intervention and remarks yesterday by Britain 's chancellor of the Exchequer , Nigel Lawson .
Buttressing the pound , though , was optimism carried over from Mr. Lawson 's annual budget message Tuesday , firmer oil prices and inactivity in the usually more important trading of dollars and West German marks .
The dollar edged higher in quiet trading yesterday .
`` Dollar-sterling and sterling-mark , that 's where all the action has been , '' said Victor Polce , vice president of foreign exchange at Merrill Lynch Capital Markets in New York .
`` Aside from sterling , this market has been lethargic , '' Mr. Polce said .
The reduction in British lending rates to 10 % from 10.5 % was largely expected .
That decrease , though , was smaller than what some analysts had predicted a drop of a full point , which may account for sterling 's strength in the face of the cut .
`` It would take a drop of at least another percentage point to hurt the pound , '' said Robert Cassidy , vice president of foreign exchange at Chemical Bank in New York .
Also , the stimulative effect of the cuts on the British economy was seen as a positive sign for the pound , traders said .
The most negative factor for sterling , traders said , remains the specter of Bank of England intervention in currency markets to halt the pound 's appreciation .
Such fears were reinforced by Mr. Lawson 's remarks to reporters in London yesterday .
Although the finance minister said he was `` perfectly content '' with the pound 's current level , Mr. Lawson reiterated that he would n't like to see a significant strengthening of the pound .
Sterling has risen about 5 % against a trade-weighted basket of currencies since the Feb. 22 accord to stabilize exchange rates , struck by U.S. and its five major economic allies at their Paris meeting .
The pound 's trade-weighted value yesterday stood at 72.6 % of its 1975 level , compared with 69.1 % on the last trading day before the Paris accord .
Meanwhile , in late New York trading , the pound stood at $ 1.6080 , up from $ 1.6043 Tuesday .
Against the bellwether European unit , sterling climbed to 2.9513 marks , from 2.9421 .
If Britain 's central bank plans to intervene against the pound , it will start selling sterling at or above the $ 1.6100 level , many traders say .
Britain may want a weaker currency to make its products less expensive for foreigners to import , traders note .
In other currency trading , the dollar rose to 1.8354 marks , from 1.8339 , and to 151.86 Japanese yen , from 151.78 .
In early trading in Tokyo Thursday , the dollar inched up against the Japanese currency to 151.88 yen from 151.86 in New York yesterday afternoon .
In New York , gold for current delivery fell 60 cents an ounce to $ 405.10 in moderate trading estimated at 2.3 million ounces .
Gold was quoted at $ 405.50 an ounce in early trading Thursday in Hong Kong .
Michael Deaver , former deputy White House chief of staff and a close friend of President Reagan , was indicted on charges of lying to Congress and a federal grand jury about his lobbying work after leaving government service .
The five-count perjury indictment by the grand jury charges that Mr. Deaver , who left the White House in May 1985 to start a high-profile Washington lobbying firm , lied twice while testifying before a congressional subcommittee and three times while testifying before the grand jury , which investigated whether he violated federal conflict-of-interest laws .
The indictment capped Mr. Deaver 's unsuccessful , three-week legal battle -- which went all the way to the Supreme Court -- challenging the constitutionality of the independent counsel who conducted the wide-ranging probe of his business activities .
Only hours before , Chief Justice William Rehnquist rejected an emergency request by Mr. Deaver 's attorneys to block any indictment .
The courts rejected those constitutional challenges on the ground that they were premature , since Mr. Deaver had n't been charged with any crime .
Mr. Deaver 's attorneys now are expected to resume their legal battle by seeking to have the indictment dismissed for many of the same reasons .
The indictment among other things , charges that Mr. Deaver falsely testified about contacting senior administration officials , including Secretary of State George Shultz , Transportation Secretary Elizabeth Dole and former National Security Advisers John Poindexter and Robert McFarlane , on behalf of corporate clients or foreign governments .
Mr. Deaver , if convicted , faces a maximum of 25 years in prison and up to $ 34,000 in fines .
He is the first person to face criminal charges stemming from an investigation headed by a court-appointed special prosecutor .
The indictment does n't include any charges directly related to the original conflict-of-interest allegations that triggered the 10-month investigation , and it does n't name any business associates or former government officials who joined Mr. Deaver 's lucrative lobbying and public relations firm .
In a statement , Mr. Deaver said that `` any inconsistencies between my testimony and the vast array of facts '' assembled by independent counsel Whitney North Seymour Jr. were `` totally inadvertent . ''
Asserting that he is `` confident '' of being cleared , Mr. Deaver said , `` I had no reason to lie , because I knew I had done nothing wrong . ''
In a one-paragraph statement describing Mr. Deaver as a `` friend for twenty years , '' Mr. Reagan said yesterday , `` Nancy and I will keep him and his family in our thoughts during these difficult times . ''
According to the indictment , Mr. Deaver failed to tell the grand jury about six separate meetings he attended in late 1984 and early 1985 at which the issue of acid rain was discussed , and failed to disclose that `` he actively supported '' the selection of Drew Lewis as the president 's special envoy to seek a compromise with Canada over the controversial issue .
As a lobbyist for the Canadian government after leaving the White House , Mr. Deaver later met with Mr. Lewis and `` spoke out '' to recommend a solution to the problem , according to the Justice Department .
The indictment also alleges that Mr. Deaver failed to tell the grand jury that while representing the brokerage firm Smith Barney , Harris Upham & Co. , he `` had contacts and conversations with '' Mr. Shultz ; Craig Fuller , Vice President George Bush 's chief of staff ; and Mr. McFarlane relating to efforts to retain certain tax provisions favorable to Puerto Rico .
Smith Barney has been a manager of about $ 2 billion in Puerto Rican bonds , and has indicated that when it hired Mr. Deaver , one of his main assignments was to retain tax provisions favorable to the commonwealth .
In addition , the indictment alleges that Mr. Deaver falsely told the grand jury , `` I do n't recall any government contact I made on behalf of TWA -LRB- Trans World Airlines -RRB- . ''
When the airline hired Mr. Deaver , the indictment said , he `` agreed to contact '' and did contact Secretary Dole `` in connection with TWA 's efforts to block or delay the bid by Carl Icahn to gain control of TWA . ''
To try to block what eventually was a successful takeover bid , according to the indictment , Mr. Deaver also contacted James Burnley , one of Secretary Dole 's top deputies , and Roger Porter , special assistant to the president for policy development .
The two other perjury counts involve testimony by Mr. Deaver in May before a House Energy subcommittee , which , among other things , was investigating his lucrative contract with the South Korean government .
The indictment said Mr. Deaver failed to disclose those contacts .
The grand jury also accused Mr. Deaver of failing to disclose contacts with five other White House or National Security Council officials on behalf of clients .
In a challenge to rules barring banks from the securities business , Chase Manhattan Bank introduced a deposit account that ties returns to the stock market .
The bank also said it is seeking permission to sell its own mutual funds .
Robert R. Douglass , the bank 's vice chairman , portrayed the moves as assaults on Glass-Steagall Act restrictions that generally prevent banks from engaging in securities activities .
Offering mutual funds has been considered forbidden by the act .
Some in Congress recently have resisted granting expanded powers to banks .
A bill before the Senate includes a moratorium on banks ' expansion into such areas as underwriting certain municipal revenue bonds and securities backed by mortgages and other assets .
Sponsored by Senate Banking Committee Chairman William Proxmire -LRB- D. , Wis. -RRB- , the bill has cleared that panel and is enthusiastically supported by the brokerage industry but is being actively opposed by banks .
Mr. Douglass said he hopes the new account , called a market index investment , will help `` bring about a sense in Congress that Glass-Steagall should be changed , '' adding that `` we are n't going to stop there . ''
Chase Manhattan Corp. is the first bank holding company to seek to offer its own mutual funds , it said .
Applications to offer other securities-related products have been filed already by Chase and other banks .
Chase has applied to the Federal Reserve Board for permission to act as sponsor , investment adviser and distributor for various mutual funds to be offered through its investment advisory subsidiary , the company said .
Meanwhile , the new stock market-related account seems to come about as close to a mutual fund as anything a bank currently may offer .
Depending on the investor 's desired minimum rate of return and maturity , the account currently pays as much as 75 % of any percentage increase in the S&P 500 index during the term of the account .
If the account had been available a year ago , Mr. Douglass said , investors could have obtained returns as high as 18 % during last year 's bull market , when the index jumped 24 % .
Investors can choose a 4 % or 2 % guaranteed return , or dispense with the guarantee .
At the same time , they can choose among three-month , six-month , nine-month and one-year maturities .
The lower the guaranteed return , and the longer the maturity , the greater the percentage of any index increase the investor receives .
At current terms , investors could obtain as much as 75 % or as little as 25 % of any increase .
When the account matures , investors receive their principal plus the contracted interest .
If the index declines , investors receive any guaranteed interest plus their principal .
The bank plans to adjust the formula tied to the index weekly .
The formula is based primarily on Chase 's cost of hedging its exposure in the futures market .
Chase will offer the non-negotiable accounts in amounts from $ 1,000 to $ 1 million , although they will be insured only as high as $ 100,000 by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. .
The bank is also working on a similar account for its corporate and institutional clients .
Chase Manhattan Corp. 's treasurer , J. Richard Zecher , said Chase had considered also offering the account in reverse , structuring it so investors ' yields would increase when the stock market dropped , but decided to start with only one version .
The new account does n't carry any fees or commissions but has stiffer than usual penalties for early withdrawal because of the costs of unwinding the bank 's hedges .
The account is non-negotiable and will be offered nationwide .
Home Depot Inc. expects to report that its fiscal fourth-quarter profit nearly tripled on a 34 % increase in sales , according to Bernard Marcus , chairman and chief executive officer .
For the quarter ended Feb. 1 , the chain of home improvement stores expects to post net income of about $ 7.7 million , or 27 cents a share , compared with $ 2.6 million , or 10 cents a share , a year earlier , Mr. Marcus said .
The company expects to report that sales rose to $ 273.9 million from $ 203.7 million , he added .
Mr. Marcus also said the company expects to report that profit for the full year rose to about $ 23.9 million , or 90 cents a share , from $ 8.2 million , or 33 cents a share , in fiscal 1986 .
Sales rose 44 % to $ 1.01 billion from $ 700.7 million , he said .
The substantial profit improvements in the latest quarter and year reflect the company 's successful program to digest the huge expansion undertaken during fiscal 1986 , Mr. Marcus said .
Fiscal 1986 profit was depressed after Home Depot increased its number of stores to 50 from 22 .
The expansion also doubled the company 's markets .
Mr. Marcus said the expansion `` was worth the investment . ''
In the latest year , however , he said the company slowed its expansion and improved profit by a `` rededication to the business we invented . ''
Home Depot opened only 10 stores , he said , while consolidating existing markets , enhancing store merchandising and retraining its sales staff .
`` We are now a more effective company than we 've ever been , '' he said .
Mr. Marcus also said he expects the current year to `` be a very good year , '' and that the company plans to open 16 stores this year .
There are currently 61 stores in the chain .
Advanced Genetic Sciences Inc. said it selected Brentwood , Calif. , to be the site of the first field test of genetically altered bacteria .
The biotechnology concern is awaiting approval from state regulators to begin open-air testing of the microbe , which is designed to protect crops from frost damage .
As previously reported , the federal Environmental Protection Agency last month reinstated Advanced Genetic 's test permit , and approved three possible test sites in California .
The company said it expects the field test of the product , which it calls Frostban , to begin this spring .
The EPA originally granted permission for a field test of the microbe in November 1985 , but suspended the permit three months later after it was disclosed that the company had violated federal regulations in initial tests of the product .
Advanced Genetic eventually paid a $ 13,000 fine and repeated the earlier experiments .
Brentwood is a suburban and agricultural community about 40 miles east of San Francisco .
Advanced Genetic said that , although their approval is n't a requirement for proceeding with the test , county supervisors this week voted in support of the Brentwood site .
Contra Costa County Supervisor Nancy Fahden said the board 's unanimous vote came after the county 's agricultural community voiced support at public hearings on the matter .
The selling point to some supervisors was the idea that `` this process could be a way of reducing the use of pesticides and herbicides '' in the future , she said .
Energy Secretary John Herrington , facing an uphill battle within the Reagan administration , has proposed a substantially more generous depletion allowance for domestic oil and gas producers .
Mr. Herrington , as part of his overall effort to help the beleaguered U.S. petroleum industry , this week asked the cabinet and President Reagan to approve a 27.5 % annual depletion allowance for all domestic oil and gas wells , administration officials said .
The letter proposing the tax breaks , which could cost the Treasury $ 2 billion to $ 7 billion annually , was sent to the president earlier this week , but has n't been released .
The Washington Post reported the proposal in yesterday 's editions .
Appearing before a House Energy subcommittee yesterday , Mr. Herrington acknowledged that the proposal , along with other policy options detailed in a comprehensive report the Energy Department released Tuesday , may be blocked by the White House or the Treasury Department .
The general concept of opening up last year 's tax-overhaul law for amendments , Mr. Herrington said , has n't been favored by the administration in the past `` and may still not be favored by the administration . ''
Marlin Fitzwater , White House spokesman , said yesterday that President Reagan had n't yet formed an opinion on Mr. Herrington 's depletion-allowance proposal .
`` I think -LRB- Mr. Reagan -RRB- does have a fundamental objection '' to putting back breaks into the overhauled tax code for the oil and gas industry , Mr. Fitzwater said .
`` However , we do have these recommendations , and they will be honestly considered and judged . ''
Some industry analysts have estimated that the depletion-allowance proposal could cost the Treasury as much as $ 7 billion annually , while Energy officials estimated the potential revenue loss at between $ 2 billion and $ 3.5 billion annually .
The oil-depletion allowance permitted companies to deduct 27.5 % of the value of oil produced from wells until 1975 .
Major oil companies lost the tax break in that year , and independent producers have seen it whittled to 15 % since then .
The total income of federally insured commercial banks declined in 1986 for the first time in 25 years , according to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. .
Their net income totaled $ 17.8 billion last year , down 1.4 % from the industry 's record $ 18.1 billion in 1985 .
FDIC Chairman William Seidman attributed the decline to continuing problems in the agriculture and energy fields .
Data filed with the FDIC also show that nearly 20 % of the nation 's federally insured commercial banks reported losses last year , up from 17 % in 1985 .
The figures , released yesterday by the FDIC , were taken from reports the institutions are required to give the FDIC .
More than 81 % of the unprofitable banks were west of the Mississippi River .
One in four of the institutions in that part of the nation had losses , largely because of exceptionally high loan losses .
In contrast , only one in 12 institutions east of the Mississippi was unprofitable .
Loan losses were one of the major drags on banks ' earnings nationwide .
Provisions for losses totaled $ 21.7 billion last year , up more than $ 4 billion , or 22.7 % , from 1985 .
Nonperforming assets were 1.96 % of total assets in 1986 , up from 1.87 % the year before .
In spite of that , the banks increased their total primary capital 9.2 % to a record $ 208 billion .
`` The ones that were performing poorly are doing so poorly , they 're dragging the overall aggregate down , '' John Quinn of the FDIC 's research division said .
Mr. Seidman , the FDIC chairman , also said `` it 's too soon to tell '' what long-term effect Brazil 's suspension of its interest payments will have on the U.S. banking industry .
`` We do n't see now that it 's going to have any important effect in the near term , '' Mr. Seidman said .
House and Senate committees investigating the Iran-Contra affair voted to grant immunity to six more witnesses and moved to make the U.S. role in the Nicaraguan war the early focus of joint public hearings beginning in May .
The grants of immunity were designed to persuade the individuals -- including several who were prominent in a private Contra supply network -- to testify .
The supply network was directed from within the National Security Council during a period in which Congress had prohibited U.S. military aid to the Contras , as the Nicaraguan rebels are known .
Under an agreement reached with Lawrence Walsh , the independent counsel investigating the affair , the congressional panels also will vote next month to grant limited immunity to John Poindexter , former national security adviser .
Investigators could begin interviewing Adm. Poindexter privately a few days before the scheduled start of hearings May 5 .
Committee members said the decision to focus the first hearings on the U.S. role in Nicaragua was dictated in part by the chronology of events .
But it also has political importance because it will influence how the entire Iran-Contra affair is cast in the months ahead .
The private network assisting the Contras pre-dated any diversion of funds from U.S. weapons sales to Iran , and investigators believe the scandal can only be understood in this context .
Moreover , by securing Adm. Poindexter 's early testimony , the committees hope to determine whether President Reagan approved the creation of the private network to aid the Contras and whether he knew about the National Security Council 's role in directing it .
Adm. Poindexter was head of the NSC , a branch of the White House .
`` The diversion of funds from the Iran arms sales is only a part of the puzzle , and maybe a very small part , '' a congressional source said .
`` We first want to focus on how the private network which supplied the Contras got set up in 1984 , and whether -LRB- President -RRB- Reagan authorized it . ''
Intelligence and congressional sources said William Casey , former Central Intelligence Agency director , appears to have been one of the architects of the private aid program .
They said Mr. Casey directed some of his subordinates to help Lt. Col. Oliver North , fired NSC aide , supply arms to Iran and aid to the Contras .
Separately , intelligence sources said a report by the CIA 's inspector general concluded that officials at CIA headquarters in Langley , Va. , and at CIA stations in Europe and Central America helped funnel aid to the Contras despite a CIA directive to avoid violating the congressional ban at that time on aid to the insurgents .
The sources said the report does n't single out any officials or recommend disciplinary action .
But the former CIA station chief in Costa Rica already has been given early retirement , following disclosure that he helped coordinate arms deliveries to the Contras .
The congressional committees so far have approved grants of immunity for 10 people .
The six approved for immunity yesterday include a former NSC aide , Lt. Col. Robert Earl , and two participants in the private Contra supply network , Robert Owen and retired Air Force Lt. Col. Richard Gadd .
Col. Gadd is a close associate of retired Air Force Maj. Gen. Richard Secord .
Apart from his role in the private airlift of supplies to assist the Contras , Col. Gadd controls a series of Virginia companies that have received classified contracts from the government for clandestine operations .
Sources said the committees voted to grant immunity to two of Col. Gadd 's past employees , including a retired noncommissioned officer in military special operations .
The committees previously granted immunity to retired Air Force Col. Robert Dutton , who was part of the same Contra supply network .
Gen. Secord appears increasingly isolated in the investigation .
The Senate panel voted yesterday to initiate civil contempt proceedings against him in an effort to force him to turn over bank records important to the inquiry .
The measure must next be taken up by the full Senate , where it is expected to be approved promptly .
But the process may be overtaken by events , since investigators hope to obtain much of the same information elsewhere .
Albert Hakim , a business partner of Gen. Secord , is believed to have access to many of the same records .
The committees last week voted to grant Mr. Hakim immunity , but Mr. Walsh has since indicated that he objects to that move .
The prosecutor 's objections legally ensure him only of winning a 20-day delay before immunity is granted , however .
The congressional committees announced their plans after days of private talks with Mr. Walsh .
By reaching an agreement with Mr. Walsh on the issue of immunity , the committees avoided a fight with the prosecutor , who wanted a 90-day waiting period before lawmakers granted immunity to Adm. Poindexter and Col. North , the two central figures in the affair .
The committees are n't expected to vote on granting immunity to Adm. Poindexter until around April 21 , and his first public testimony will n't come before June 15 .
The panels will n't decide when to grant immunity to Col. North before June 4 , and any testimony he gives under such a grant will n't come before June 15 .
To expedite their proceedings further , lawmakers said the two panels largely will meld their staffs .
First Jersey Securities Inc. agreed to pay $ 50,000 to Delaware to settle charges that it illegally sold securities in that state .
The New York-based securities firm , which has since sold its brokerage operations , was indicted in October 1986 on 10 misdemeanor violations of Delaware law .
First Jersey pleaded no contest to five of the counts Tuesday in Delaware Superior Court .
The other five counts were dropped as part of the plea agreement .
Each count carried a maximum penalty of $ 10,000 .
The charges concerned allowing unregistered agents to sell securities in the state .
First Jersey officials could n't be reached for comment .
Previously they have said the firm is committed to resolving outstanding litigation regarding the former brokerage operation .
Delaware charged that the First Jersey sales occurred between Nov. 7 , 1984 , and May 1986 .
The Los Angeles County district attorney charged that Western Waste Industries concealed hazardous waste in loads of household trash and dumped it illegally in three county landfills here during 1985 and 1986 .
Gardena , Calif.-based Western Waste said in a statement that it believes the charges are unfounded .
The company also said it intends to contest the allegations vigorously .
`` We have been in business for more than 30 years and have always complied with all city , county , state and federal laws relating to the handling of hazardous waste , '' said Kosti Shirvanian , chairman of Western Waste .
Mr. Shirvanian said the company 's transfer station in Carson , Calif. , where the alleged concealments of hazardous waste took place , is `` open to the public and is inspected by city , county and state agencies on a regular basis . ''
The company said it is launching its own investigation into the allegedly illegal dumping .
The district attorney , Ira Reiner , charged that Western Waste dumped hazardous substances in the landfills rather than taking them to specially licensed , more expensive hazardous waste disposal sites .
The hazardous wastes were chromium , nickel and perchloroethylene , a dry-cleaning chemical , he charged .
Such substances would become a health hazard if they were to spread into groundwater surrounding the landfills .
Mr. Reiner said there is n't any evidence that such leaks have occurred .
Mr. Reiner 's complaint also charged a Western Waste vice president , Hacob Shirvanian , and two dispatchers with illegally transporting and disposing of hazardous waste .
In national over-the-counter trading , Western Waste closed yesterday at $ 19.75 a share , down $ 2.125 .
Mesa Limited Partnership , responding to criticism about its accountability to unit holders , said it will hold an annual meeting in May .
Under its partnership agreement , the oil and gas partnership is n't required to have a board of directors or to hold an annual meeting .
But company spokesmen said the partnership will ask unit holders to vote on amendments to the agreement .
The amendments would call for an annual meeting and allow unit holders to vote on auditors , among other things .
The partnership currently is preparing a proxy statement .
`` This is as close as we can get to what amounts to an election of directors , '' one spokesman said .
Diamond Shamrock Corp. , which Mesa and T. Boone Pickens Jr. tried to acquire earlier this year , accused the partnership -- along with other critics -- of having `` entrenched management '' because unit holders do n't have an annual meeting and thus have n't any regular chance to vote .
The annual meeting may make it easier for unit holders who so desire to try to replace Mr. Pickens , Mesa 's general partner .
Currently , holders of at least 20 % of the units must vote in favor of calling a meeting before a meeting can be held .
John Labatt Ltd. said it agreed to issue $ 125 million -LRB- Canadian -RRB- in convertible debentures .
The debentures are convertible into common stock at any time at $ 27 a share .
The debentures offer a minimum interest rate of 5 % of the issue price of $ 1,000 and additional interest will be calculated by a formula based on dividends paid on Labatt 's common shares .
Wood Gundy Inc. will lead the underwriting group and Great Lakes Group. , an affiliate of Labatt , has agreed to buy $ 75 million of the debentures from the underwriters .
The shares purchased by Great Lakes can be resold to the underwriters at any time .
Labatt , a brewing , packaged-foods and agricultural products concern , said proceeds would be used to reduce short-term debt and for general corporate purposes .
HRE Properties , a real estate investment trust , cut its quarterly dividend 21 % to 45 cents a share , reflecting repayment of high-yielding investments and reinvestment of funds at lower yields .
The trust had paid 57 cents a share quarterly since March 1985 , and previously cut its dividend in 1975 .
`` We figured that if we had to cut it , we wanted to set it at a level we were confident we could sustain , and hopefully build from , '' said William F. Murdoch , president and chief executive officer .
The latest dividend is payable April 20 to stock of record March 31 .
Earlier this week , HRE reported net income of $ 2.3 million , or 38 cents a share , for the fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 31 , down 18 % from the year-earlier $ 2.8 million , or 47 cents a share .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , HRE shares closed at $ 23 , down $ 4.50 .
Mr. Murdoch said the cut also reflected `` the continuing impact of overbuilding in the trust 's office building markets , '' which has softened rents , and `` the inability to replace the income from high yielding investments that have matured .
In view of the location and quality of the trust 's properties , the long-term prospects for growth and appreciation remain favorable . ''
Real estate investment trusts do n't have to pay federal income taxes as long as they distribute 95 % of taxable income to shareholders .
At Oct. 31 , the end of its fiscal year , the trust had $ 160 million in assets , including $ 137 million in real estate investments .
