Researchers at American Telephone & Telegraph Co. have discovered a new family of superconductors that may help scientists ' understanding of the important electrical phenomenon .
The AT&T compounds , concocted from lead , strontium , copper oxide and other materials , do n't break any performance records for superconductors and may never find any practical applications .
But their unexpected properties upset some prior scientific assumptions about superconductivity and may speed the current , world-wide search for better , commercially useful superconducting materials .
`` It 's helping us build up an overall picture of what superconductivity 's about , '' said one prominent British scientist familiar with the AT&T work .
AT&T 's unearthing of the new superconductor family confirms most physicists ' view that `` there may well be many more -LRB- superconductors -RRB- to be discovered '' -- some of them better-performing -- said Colin Gough , head of the superconductivity-research group at the University of Birmingham , England .
A report of the AT&T discovery is to be published today in Nature , a leading British scientific journal that often prints superconductor studies .
First news of the work was discussed last week by scientists at a materials-research conference in Strasbourg , France .
Sixteen AT&T scientists at the New York-based company 's Murray Hill , N.J. , Bell Laboratories co-authored the Nature report .
They were led by AT&T scientists Robert J. Cava and Bertram Batlogg , two pioneers of superconductor research .
The once-quiet study of superconductivity became one of the hottest fields in physics after a 1986 discovery by scientists at International Business Machines Corp. Normally , all materials put up some energy-wasting resistance to an electric current passing through them .
But a superconducting material , when chilled , loses all resistance .
The IBM researchers found a superconducting material that needed comparatively little chilling -- raising the possibility of cheaper , faster computers , electric-power stations and other electrical devices made from the materials .
Since 1986 , four main families of `` high-temperature '' superconductors have been identified .
The fifth , AT&T 's discovery , is a distant cousin of the earlier varieties -- based , like most of them , on copper oxide laced with other elements .
AT&T 's family adds lead and strontium as basic structural elements ; any of several other elements , added in minute quantities , distinguishes one member of the AT&T family from another .
In a telephone interview , Robert Laudise , Bell Laboratories ' director of materials chemistry research , said the lead-strontium compounds are unusual in having more copper and less oxygen in their makeup than many scientists previously thought possible for a superconductor .
It suggests , he said , that scientists searching for better superconductors may have overlooked some low-oxygen materials on the incorrect assumption that they would n't work .
The research , he said , `` is just one more clue that fits into the puzzle '' of which materials can -- and can n't -- work as superconductors .
Mr. Laudise said , however , that the new lead-strontium materials themselves may have little immediate practical value .
They must go through more-costly chilling than many other superconductors , to at least 68 degrees centigrade above absolute zero . -LRB- Theoretically equal to minus 273.15 degrees centigrade , absolute zero is the hypothetical temperature characterized by the complete absence of heat . -RRB-
Some other , more-promising superconductors need chilling only to 125 degrees above absolute zero .
The Treasury plans to raise $ 5.35 billion in new cash with the sale next week of about $ 9 billion in two-year notes and about $ 7.5 billion in five-year , two-month notes .
The balance of the proceeds will be used to redeem $ 11.14 billion in maturing two-year notes .
The new two-year notes , to be sold Tuesday , will mature Nov. 30 , 1990 .
The five-year , two-month notes , to be sold Wednesday , will mature Feb. 15 , 1994 .
Tenders for the notes must be received by 1 p.m. EST on the date of the respective auctions at the Treasury or at Federal Reserve banks or branches .
The shorter notes are available in minimum denominations of $ 5,000 and the longer notes will be sold in minimum lots of $ 1,000 .
Nerco Inc. said a unit agreed in principle to acquire certain oil and natural-gas properties from Enron Inc. , Houston , for about $ 90 million .
The transaction , which is subject to signing of a final agreement , would bring Nerco 's total 1988 purchases of Gulf Coast reserves to about $ 270 million .
The company 's Nerco Oil & Gas Inc. unit said its strategy of acquiring oil and gas reserves during periods of relatively low energy prices `` is beginning to show positive strategic and financial benefits . ''
An official said Nerco Oil & Gas , which had operating losses totaling $ 54.2 million in the past three years , has returned to profitability this year and is comfortable with analysts ' projections the unit will show about $ 10 million in operating profit for all of 1988 .
Rising natural-gas prices and increased production are fueling the rebound , he said .
Nerco , which also has interests in coal and precious-metals mining , is 90 % -owned by PacifiCorp , a diversified utility holding company based in Portland .
Enron said the accord is part of a previously announced plan to sell $ 200 million to $ 300 million of non-strategic oil and gas properties .
With the completion of this latest pact , the company will have sold about $ 250 million of those properties .
Proceeds will be used to help reduce Enron 's debt , which stands at $ 3.87 billion .
George Melloan 's Business World article `` Could Another Market Crash Happen ?
Sure '' -LRB- op-ed , Oct. 18 -RRB- regarding my position on the dollar and on stock-market reform contained a number of inaccuracies .
First , I have never demanded that Treasury Secretary Nicholas Brady appear before the Senate Banking Committee to explain the dollar 's rise as Mr. Melloan claims in his article .
What I did was send a letter to Mr. Brady asking him to address the implications of the dollar 's recent rise on our current account deficit .
I also asked him to present his views on the outlook for the current account deficit in the future .
I made these requests because the Treasury was preparing to submit to the Banking Committee the first report on international economic policy as required by Section 3005 of the Omnibus Trade Competitiveness Act of 1988 and because I felt that those issues were important .
Mr. Melloan suggests that this was a parting shot at Wall Street .
Does he suggest that requesting the treasury secretary to present and clarify the administration 's view of the outlook for our current account deficit and the growth of our nation 's net foreign indebtedness is contrary to the interests of the financial sector ?
That is ironic in light of the widely held view among economists , businessmen and other devotees of a free-market system such as myself that clear , credible , high-quality information will resolve unnecessary uncertainty and permit investors to make their investment decisions with greater confidence .
While it had nothing to do with my sending a letter to Secretary Brady , it would also be foolishly simplistic to suggest that a change in the value of the dollar is contrary to the interests of the financial sector .
First of all , changes in the exchange rate are often associated with a heightened volume of trading that increases the earnings of Wall Street traders .
Second , as was in evidence between 1985 and 1987 , a change in the value of the dollar affects the medium-term outlook for earnings and can generate substantial activity in the equity market .
Many commentators have attributed the rise in the stock market in 1987 to the improvements in our export -- and import -- competing sectors .
Surely that was not contrary to the interests of substantial parts of Wall Street .
Such a simplistic specification , casting me against Wall Street and private enterprise , is both inaccurate and belittles the sophistication of the readers of The Wall Street Journal .
Second , Mr. Melloan states that the `` markets know quite clearly what Sen. Proxmire has in mind when he calls on Secretary Brady to explain himself .
He wants a soft currency . ''
That is clearly false .
If Mr. Melloan would only look at my record he would find that when the Banking Committee held hearings in February and July in regard to the Humphrey Hawkins Monetary Policy Report I stated in the record that I feared that a further decline in the dollar would exacerbate economic stagnation in other industrial countries and slow economic growth world-wide .
I did not then , and do not now , want a soft currency .
What I do want is to establish a clear , coherent and sustainable policy to reduce our current account deficit over a reasonable time horizon that is consistent with the problems of adjustment that will be experienced by the surplus and the deficit countries and is also consistent with price stability .
I also believe that the level and future path of the exchange rate are intimately intertwined with the future course of our trade deficit and are therefore the proper subject of concern and debate .
Finally , with regard to stock market system reform , Mr. Melloan cavalierly asserts that I made the comment that it `` would be better to do the wrong thing than nothing at all . ''
I said no such thing .
Furthermore , many executives in the securities industry strongly supported my efforts to facilitate the modernization of our stock-market system along the lines that Mr. Brady 's report suggested .
Our stock-market system has changed substantially following the innovations in stock-related derivative instruments and our regulatory system has not yet responded to those changes .
I still believe , as do many professionals in the securities industry , that modernization of our regulatory structure is a high priority for the next administration and the 101st Congress .
Sen. William Proxmire -LRB- D. , Wis . -RRB-
Standard & Poor 's Corp. said it is putting $ 17 billion of New York state debt on CreditWatch with negative implications .
New York faces a $ 1.94 billion budget gap for the current fiscal year , which ends March 31 , mostly because of a shortage in personal income tax collections .
The legislature has plugged roughly half the gap , but it needs to find an additional $ 944 million .
In addition , the state faces an anticipated shortage the following fiscal year .
`` We 're waiting to see whether the legislature comes up with a program that addresses the problem in a fiscally responsible manner , '' says Maury Cooper , a vice president at S&P .
`` If they do n't we 'll downgrade them . ''
Affected are $ 3.8 billion of double-A-minus general obligation bonds ; $ 2.6 billion of SP-1-plus tax and revenue anticipation notes ; $ 500 million of authorized A-1-plus commercial paper , and $ 10.1 billion of variously rated moral obligation , lease purchase , guaranteed and contractual obligation debt .
Last week , the state released a midyear update to its financial plan identifying possible deficit-reduction measures .
`` With minor exceptions , these alternatives do n't address the shortfall in a manner that assures ongoing fiscal balance , '' S&P warned .
Some of the proposed actions , it said , `` only defer the problem to subsequent fiscal years and are inconsistent with the state 's current credit ratings . ''
New York 's comptroller , Edward V. Regan , seconded S&P 's warning .
He said measures such as delaying income tax refunds , which the state is considering , `` will cause the state to slip back to the old ways of fiscal manipulation . ''
He said `` genuine and permanent spending restraint is absolutely required . ''
Kuhlman Corp. `` fully expects to be profitable '' in the fourth quarter of 1988 after six consecutive quarters of losses , Donald O. Dulude , chairman and chief executive officer , said .
Kuhlman , which makes power transformers and plastic products , reported a net loss of $ 1.8 million on sales of $ 46.8 million in the year-ago fourth quarter .
In the first nine months of this year , the company posted a net loss of $ 9.3 million on sales of $ 131.8 million .
However , most of the loss in the first three quarters of 1988 came from a net charge of $ 9.1 million , taken in the third quarter , to reflect the discontinuation of Kuhlman 's unprofitable Borse Plastic Products Corp. unit .
The charge was the last of $ 13.3 million in restructuring costs for Kuhlman in 1988 .
In composite trading on the American Stock Exchange , the company closed unchanged yesterday at $ 8.375 a share .
`` We 've got the worst behind us , '' Mr. Dulude said .
`` This restructuring was a drain , not only from a financial standpoint , but also in terms of human resources because everybody was working to stem the losses .
Now we can direct our attention to moving forward . ''
Mr. Dulude said the company expects to see gains from the early October transfer of some non-metallic automotive fuel tank production to its Canadian operations from U.S. plants .
Productivity at the company 's Blenheim , Ont. , plant had been lower than expected this year because of weak demand for Chrysler Corp. 's Eagle Premier sedan , which is built in Canada and uses Kuhlman plastic fuel tanks made there .
As a result , Kuhlman 's Canadian plastics operations had been posting losses .
The company said the shift of production will make its Bronson , Mich. , plant less profitable .
But Mr. Dulude said a reconfiguration of the Bronson plant will offset some of the impact .
Mr. Dulude said a joint venture with Togo Seisakusyo of Japan should help Kuhlman 's spring operations to generate more business with the U.S. manufacturing assembly arms of Asian auto makers and parts suppliers .
Mr. Dulude also said the company has been raising prices for Kuhlman 's power transformers to catch up with higher raw materials costs seen earlier this year .
Mr. Baird 's reference to preserving the `` freedom of association '' of nonunion workers ignores the fact that since 1935 the law of the land has tried to protect those who want to be represented by a labor organization of their choice .
The law 's protections have never been strong enough to overcome the persuasive power of some employers who `` exercise their right of freedom of speech '' to subtly threaten the livelihoods of those who engage in union activity .
A 1984 House report cited `` the sharp rise over the past twenty years in illegal employer tactics to counter unionization efforts . ''
Recent decisions made by pro-management appointees to the National Labor Relations Board and the federal courts have further encouraged the union-busters by reducing what little protection the law formerly gave to otherwise defenseless employees .
Since unionized employees command substantially higher wages and benefits than most of their unrepresented counterparts , it is obvious that most working men and women would choose to join unions were it not for the heavy-handed tactics of some employers and their friends in positions of authority .
Just seven months after introducing a sweeping securities rulebook , Britain plans to overhaul its regulations , replacing a tough regime of business-conduct rules with a looser , simplified code of good-practice principles .
The watchdog Securities and Investments Board said its new draft rules assure the same standards of investor protection as the more detailed regulations they replace .
Separately , the government said it will repeal a law giving any U.K. investor the right to sue securities firms for breaking financial laws .
Trade and Industry Secretary Lord Young said the law as it now stands `` could lead to an excessively litigious approach in the financial markets . ''
It will be restricted to permit only private investors the statutory right to sue .
Britain 's new rules still require financial services firms to be pure .
But the new rulebook -- about two-thirds the length of the old one -- reduces the obligations on firms to demonstrate their purity and their possible legal liability when they are n't .
SIB Chairman David Walker said , `` Less reliance on detailed rules will actually be more effective in protecting investors '' because British authorities can crack down on breaches of the code 's spirit instead of its written rules .
The biggest change in the new code , effective next July , absolves investment firms from strict liability for breaching rules by providing them with the defense they were acting reasonably , or to their best abilities .
The rules also reduce the level of detail required of firms in so-called know-your-client rules .
And the code effectively widens the notion of a professional or experienced investor , who gets less protection than small investors .
Mr. Walker conceded the new code is `` at a higher level of generality , '' and will increase the discretionary power of the regulators -- most of whom are industry professionals themselves .
Such changes reduce the regulatory system 's predictability and transparency , originally intended to be its virtues .
Though the new rules increase the possibility regulators ' decisions may favor firms over clients , Mr. Walker said he considers that risk `` insignificant when compared to the gain in user-friendliness . ''
He added , `` I do n't think we are taking teeth out , but are putting teeth in more effective parts of the jaw . ''
The rewrite is a substantial turnabout .
Less than two years ago , a series of financial scandals prompted the election-minded Conservative government to tighten Britain 's securities regulatory regime .
But the rules , effective last April , were sharply criticized as overly complex and costly by the financial services industry .
Economists estimated compliance costs at $ 180 million .
Since then , the government has become increasingly concerned by industry threats that the system -- the toughest in Europe -- might drive business out of London as the 1992 deadline for removing remaining European Community trade barriers nears .
Mr. Walker echoed those worries yesterday .
`` We can have highly defined regulation that leaves nothing but desert out there , '' he said , referring to London 's bustling financial district .
Meantime , securities industry professionals are rejoicing .
The Securities Association , leading industry regulator for London 's stock and bond markets , welcomed the rewrite and said it is rewriting its own weighty rulebook .
Other self-regulatory bodies are expected to follow suit .
The new rules , said the chief securities law expert at one of the biggest U.S. investment banks in London , `` simplify things .
There can be simplification and still be rules . ''
You are to be commended for your Nov. 1 article `` Men , Too , Wrestle With Career-Family Stress . ''
Within the past year , several other publications have reported on the difficulties of effectively managing employment and parental responsibilities but focused on the issue as though it confronted only women .
As your article pointed out , men are similarly faced with competing compelling pressures .
The view of Cynthia Grantz , president of Rockford Coatings Corp. , that `` child rearing is largely the mother 's domain , '' surely ignores present-day reality .
Undoubtedly , employer attitudes based on such sexual stereotypes will lead to diminished job satisfaction for parents and , in the long run , the employer 's detriment .
Soured on silver , bored with gold ?
These days , big governments are peddling platinum coins .
Australia recently became the first major nation to offer a platinum bullion coin , the Koala .
Today , the Canadian Royal Mint will unveil its Platinum Maple Leaf .
And Mexico soon plans to launch a Platinum Libertad .
The new issues come amid heightened competition among leading bullion nations for coin investors .
Dealers say the recent push partly reflects an effort by the platinum industry to polish the metal 's image .
`` Platinum has always been gold 's stepchild , '' says Luis Vigdor , senior vice president of MTB Banking Corp. , a large New York dealer .
The recent coin parade , he says , is a `` commercial effort to place platinum at the same level . ''
But do n't expect the coins to glitter like gold .
Platinum -- considered by some the ugly duckling among precious metals even though it costs more -- resembles gun metal , or a dulled silver .
Like other bullion coins , the new platinum issues will cost about 5 % to 7 % above the metal 's spot-market price , which yesterday closed at $ 580.40 an ounce on the New York Mercantile Exchange .
Still , platinum is a better buy than other precious metals , some numismatists say .
Two major factors : its extreme rarity and broad industrial uses .
`` In the parlance of the dealer , platinum has the sexiest story to tell , '' says Bruce Kaplan , senior vice president of A-Mark Precious Metals Inc. , a large Santa Monica , Calif. , wholesaler .
A report issued this week by Johnson Matthey PLC shows why .
The big London-based refiner forecasts record platinum demand this year .
Stemming partly from the new coin issues , demand will outstrip supply by 465,000 ounces in 1988 , more than double last year 's amount , the report says .
If there 's a loser in all the activity , it will be the tiny Isle of Man .
Dealers say that country 's Noble coin , until recently the only legal-tender platinum piece on the market , is sure to lose sales .
Next on the platinum horizon : the Soviet Union .
Look for the Russians to offer a platinum coin in the U.S. before year end .
But unlike the other new issues , it will cater to collectors and will n't be legal tender .
Kyocera Corp. said unconsolidated , or parent-company , pretax earnings in the first half ended Sept. 30 grew 20 % , to 24.73 billion yen -LRB- $ 201.2 million -RRB- from 20.62 billion yen a year earlier .
Kyocera , Japan 's leading maker of ceramic packages for integrated circuits , said net income rose 17 % , to 11.82 billion yen from 10.10 billion yen .
Sales increased 16 % , to 151.43 billion yen -LRB- $ 1.23 billion -RRB- from 131.02 billion yen .
Company officials said sales and earnings were boosted by strong demand for semiconductors and other electronic devices in Japan and abroad .
Exports increased 12 % and were 47 % of overall sales .
For the full fiscal year , the company expects pretax profit to increase to 51.33 billion yen from 42.60 billion yen the previous year .
Net income is expected to rise to 24.22 billion yen from 19.88 billion yen , while sales are forecast to increase to 310.43 billion yen from 271.17 billion yen .
Cie. Financiere de Suez said first-half consolidated , or group , profit fell 19 % from a year earlier , but predicted full-year earnings will increase 3 % to 17 % .
The French financial holding company said profit after payments to minority interests dipped to 1.17 billion francs -LRB- $ 197 million -RRB- from 1.44 billion francs in 1987 's first half .
Suez linked the erosion to a decrease in revenue from the sale of securities and to an increase in new provisions for loan losses to 1.44 billion francs from 940 million francs a year earlier .
Profit growth was also limited by the fact the majority stake Suez bought this year in Societe Generale de Belgique S.A. has n't been incorporated into its results .
These negative elements were partly offset by strong first-half performances by Suez 's main operating units .
Despite the first-half slowdown , Suez predicted profit for all of 1988 will be between 2.2 billion francs and 2.5 billion francs , up from 2.13 billion francs in all of 1987 .
For months , Japan and Indonesia have been feuding over Jakarta 's attempt to get a bigger share of the aluminum produced at a jointly owned smelter in Sumatra .
Now , it turns out that the Indonesian official who triggered the dispute has a personal interest in such a reallocation .
Abdul Rauf Suhud , chairman of the Asahan Authority , which oversees the $ 2.1 billion smelter , justified his demand -- which he backed up by cutting off aluminum exports to Japan -- on national-interest grounds .
He told a news conference last month that Indonesia deserved a bigger quota than the 41 % that coincides with its equity stake because of its `` very generous '' contributions to the project , such as tax incentives and water for power generation .
Financially , Mr. Suhud complained , the Indonesian government `` virtually does n't get anything '' from the smelter .
The aluminum-export ban has angered the Japanese partners , who call it a breach of contract .
The stoppage , say businessmen and officials from both countries , has harmed Jakarta 's ties with Tokyo , Indonesia 's largest source of loans and investment .
The cutoff was imposed in July , although two subsequent shipments to Japan have been allowed .
What Mr. Suhud did n't mention at the October press conference was his involvement in a private venture that seeks eventually to process nearly one-third of the smelter 's production .
Called P.T. Asahan Aluminum Alloys , or P.T. AAA , it consists of a new Indonesian company , a new Guernsey , Channel Islands , company , and an existing Indonesian trading company .
According to documents filed with Indonesia 's Capital Investment Coordinating Board , Mr. Suhud represents both the new companies in dealings with Indonesian agencies .
There is no evidence that Mr. Suhud , a former industry minister and former deputy chairman of the investment board , is a shareholder in P.T. AAA .
But the documents establish that he and an Indonesian banker working in Singapore were central to setting it up , with assistance from other Asahan Authority officials .
Given current Indonesian domestic use of Asahan aluminum and contract commitments to the Japanese partners , P.T. AAA would n't have access to sufficient aluminum unless Japan is forced to accept a cut in its quota .
P.T. AAA 's $ 28 million plant , to be built within three years near the smelter , is to make aluminum metal for construction materials .
Approval for the plant was given by the investment board on Aug. 24 -- the day after Mr. Suhud publicly confirmed that he had suspended monthly shipments from the smelter because of the dispute with the Japanese partners .
Although Mr. Suhud 's connection with the venture has changed the complexion of the Japan-Indonesia quarrel , his connections with the private companies have received scant public attention in Indonesia .
Japanese officials working on the Asahan dispute are reluctant to discuss the matter for fear of aggravating it .
The Asahan chairman has asserted he has full support from the government for his tough line on the Japanese .
`` I could n't do this sort of thing -LCB- suspending exports -RCB- if it was n't acceptable to the government , '' he told the news conference .
Officials at the Finance Ministry , Indonesia 's official shareholder in the smelter , say they are working to resolve the dispute quickly but decline to comment further .
But some government officials privately say they are upset that Mr. Suhud is involved in a private downstream project while at the same time he is a government official overseeing the smelter .
Mr. Suhud declined repeated requests by this newspaper to comment on his role with the venture .
P. Samadiono Samadikun , secretary of the Asahan Authority , says the chairman wants to comply with government instructions not to comment at present `` on any subject whatsoever '' connected with aluminum .
The Japanese partners in the smelter also decline to comment on any aspect of the dispute .
Half of Japan 's 59 % stake is jointly held by 12 companies handling aluminum ; the other half belongs to the Japanese government .
Until they learned of Mr. Suhud 's connection with the private processing venture , the Japanese were baffled by his actions , especially the export ban that is costing Indonesia export earnings at a time of high world aluminum prices .
The smelter is supposed to give Indonesia 75,000 metric tons a year , or a third of production , whichever is less .
Mr. Suhud argues this formula covers only the aluminum project 's obligation to the Indonesian government , and he claims the rest of output should be divided in accordance with shareholdings .
That means Indonesia would get 60 % of output -- an increase Japan has vehemently resisted .
For the investors in P.T. AAA , there may not be a hurry to get the venture moving ; it does n't plan to begin commercial production until late 1990 .
But there is a need for Indonesia and Japan to resolve their argument quickly .
Besides causing a big stock buildup at the smelter , harming bilateral ties and cutting Jakarta 's export earnings , the aluminum-export ban is damaging Indonesia 's investment climate , businessmen from both countries say .
They add that relations between Mr. Suhud and the Japanese are so sour that it will be almost impossible for the two sides to work together again .
Cable & Wireless PLC said it posted a 20 % rise in pretax profit in its fiscal first half ended Sept. 30 , with its Mercury Communications Telephone System in Britain reporting a profit for the first time .
Group profit before tax for the British telecommunications company rose to # 198 million -LRB- $ 358.7 million -RRB- from # 165 million , while revenue increased 9 % to # 509 million from # 467 million .
After tax and minority interest payments , profit rose 24 % to # 135 million from # 109 million .
Net income rose 28 % , to # 139 million from # 109 million .
The Mercury subsidiary , the only licensed competitor to British Telecommunications PLC in the United Kingdom telephone market , contributed # 4 million to group operating profit .
This compared with an # 11 million loss a year earlier .
The results were at the bottom end of a range of analysts ' forecasts , dealers said .
The barrage of statistics unleashed by Warren T. Brookes -LRB- `` Surprise !
Home Buyers Are Better Off Now , '' editorial page , Oct. 17 -RRB- fails to address the dilemma of young families who perceive the American Dream of home-ownership becoming an impossible one as they are increasingly squeezed in today 's financial environment .
According to the National Association of Realtors , home `` affordability '' declined sharply from the late 1970s through the mid-1980s .
Sizable down payments , as much as 25 % of the purchase price , combined with other closing costs , many mandated by state regulations , present an all-too-often insurmountable obstacle to first-time buyers .
Changes in the tax laws in 1986 further undercut the benefits of home-ownership .
Today , people commute unprecedented distances to their workplaces in order to own a home they can afford .
In short , the hunger for ownership has replaced location as the major buyer concern .
And while buyers sacrifice location to achieve ownership , current trends make the dream more distant than ever .
Throughout our history , despite the Great Depression and the economic and social disruptions of two World Wars , Americans took home-ownership for granted .
They no longer can .
During the 1980s , for the first time since the Depression , there has been a sustained decline in home-ownership .
The largest decreases were experienced by those under 25 years old and those in the prime home-buying ages of 25 to 34 .
Yet too little attention has been given to previously proposed legislation that provides several enlightened remedial measures to narrow the `` affordability gap . ''
These include changes in the tax code that would allow first-time home buyers to use funds withdrawn -LRB- without penalty -RRB- from IRA or Keogh accounts for down payment on a principal residence .
With home-ownership and derivative industries accounting for 10 % of the gross national product , and considering the increase in local tax bases accruing from home-ownership , can we afford not to support these proposals ?
It is clearly in the interests of our elected officials at all government levels -- city , county , state and national -- to implement effective programs designed to increase opportunities for home-ownership .
More important , it is in the best interests of our citizenry .
A growing number of Americans question the capacity of Social Security to provide sufficient income after retirement and the investment in home-ownership provides the only proven means to lifetime security .
This is one of the most important issues facing the country today , and it must become a priority of the next administration .
At stake is nothing less that the foundation of the American way of life as it will be defined in the coming century .
Morristown , N.J. .
Britain 's Department of Trade and Industry cleared British Gas PLC 's $ 194.5 million acquisition of Tenneco Inc. 's oil and gas exploration and production interests outside North America , saying it would n't request an investigation of the transaction for its impact on competition .
Vulcan Corp. moved to distribute most of the 520,180 shares of Eagle-Picher Industries Inc. it holds by declaring a special dividend to stockholders .
The dividend will be in lieu of the company 's quarterly dividend of 20 cents a share due in December .
The maker of rubber and plastic products said it plans next month at a yet-undetermined date to distribute one share of Eagle-Picher stock for each three shares of Vulcan common held by stockholders of record Nov. 28 .
The special dividend has a current value of about $ 5.33 a Vulcan share .
Vulcan said its action will permit shareholders to make their own determination whether to sell such shares or hold them for a long-term investment .
Separately , directors voted to ask shareholders at a Dec. 13 special meeting to change the company 's state of incorporation to Delaware from Ohio because Vulcan no longer does any manufacturing in Ohio .
Its factories are in Tennessee , Arkansas and Wisconsin , with about 78 % of its sales generated from products made in Tennessee .
Allied Irish Banks PLC said pretax profit rose 37 % in the first half ended Sept. 30 , boosted by higher lending volumes , healthy growth in non-interest income and a reduction in bad-debt charges .
The Dublin-based bank said pretax profit rose to 79 million Irish punt -LRB- $ 120.8 million -RRB- in the first half from 57.6 million punt a year ago .
The year-ago figure excludes 9.5 million punt in loan-loss provisions .
The results compared with Allied Irish 's forecast in September that pretax profit would be `` at least '' 70 million punt .
Banking analysts said the results were slightly above expectations .
Profit after tax and minorities rose 46 % to 52 million punt from 35.7 million punt .
An Allied Irish official said negotiations are continuing with First Maryland Bancorp over Allied Irish 's offer to buy the 50.3 % of First Maryland it does n't already own for $ 35.25 a share .
Last month , a special committee of First Maryland 's board recommended that its shareholders reject the Allied Irish offer as inadequate .
Windmere Corp. said the U.S. Court of Appeals in Washington has ruled in favor of the company in antitrust litigation involving N.V. Philips 's Norelco shavers .
David M. Friedson , Windmere 's president , said the court 's decision , which reverses a lower court finding for the Dutch-based electronics giant , strengthens Windmere 's assertion that Philips is a `` monopolist . ''
A spokesman for N.A. Philips Corp. , a unit named in the suit along with U.S. Philips Corp. , said that Philips , as a matter of policy , does n't comment on matters under litigation .
Windmere , a maker of personal care products , maintains that in 1986 Philips drove it out of the three-head rotary shaver market by offering 35 % to 40 % discounts on old models of its Norelco shaver , underselling Windmere by 25 % to 30 % .
As a result , Windmere said , it suffered damages in the range of $ 13 million to $ 39 million and abandoned the market less than two years later .
Windmere said it seeks to recover triple damages of between $ 39 million and $ 117 million in 1986 dollars , an amount it estimates to be between $ 50 million to $ 150 million in 1988 dollars .
Windmere said it is unlikely the Supreme Court will choose to hear the case .
It is probable , the company said , that the suit will be remanded for retrial or settled out of court .
`` We believe we will recover damages plus about $ 3 million in legal fees , '' said Mr. Friedson .
Investor Hugh Culverhouse said he terminated his $ 20-a-share , or $ 71.9 million , bid to acquire Coast Federal Savings & Loan Association .
Mr. Culverhouse 's company , Palmer Financial Corp. , said a Federal Home Loan Bank Board resolution last week `` rewrote key provisions '' of the original acquisition agreement and required conditions on the acquisition that Palmer Financial and Mr. Culverhouse could n't accept .
Coast Federal President Robert W. Antrim said the Sarasota , Fla. , thrift 's board will meet today with its lawyers and advisers `` to see what our next step is .
`` I do n't know what the end result will be , '' he said .
In July , Coast Federal said it would take legal action when Mr. Culverhouse said he might terminate the agreement because of concern over the thrift 's financial situation .
Among the reasons for calling off the bid , Palmer Financial said , was the Bank Board 's insistence that Palmer Financial bear the $ 1.5 million cost of terminating the existing employee stock-option plan .
Another condition which helped doom the bid , Palmer Financial said , was the Bank Board 's insistence that Mr. Culverhouse inject additional capital into the thrift if the reappraisal of the Palmer Ranch -- a 10,000-acre property being jointly developed by Mr. Culverhouse and the thrift -- required Coast Federal to reduce its capital below certain levels .
The Bank Board also required Mr. Culverhouse to provide Palmer Financial with any additional capital it may have needed to pay a $ 72.5 million loan commitment to Miami-based Southeast Banking Corp. 's Southeast Bank unit .
In national over the counter trading Coast Federal closed at $ 12.625 a share , down $ 3.375 .
Atlantic Richfield Co. said it signed a long-term licensing agreement with Kyodo Oil for construction of 500 am/pm mini markets at Kyodo-branded gas stations in Japan .
Los Angeles-based Arco said the agreement calls for it to provide operating information on its combination convenience store and gas station formula , as well as use of the am/pm name .
Financial details were n't disclosed .
Kyodo is one of Japan 's largest oil companies , with more than 6,400 service stations .
Some existing stations will be converted to the am/pm format and Kyodo plans to build some new outlets .
The first store is scheduled to open in Tokyo next spring .
Arco has more than 700 am/pm stores , which carry basic grocery items , as well as hamburgers and soft drinks .
The outlets are built on existing gas station sites and are credited with substantially increasing revenue and profit per site for Arco .
The formula is said to be attractive to Kyodo because of rising property values in Japan , leading to demands for higher returns from gas station sites to justify continued operation .
Kyodo will continue to use its own name on the stations but will use the am/pm logo , trading on the attraction of English in the Japanese market .
Plans call for the Japanese am/pm mini markets to be substantially smaller than their U.S. counterparts .
The Japanese versions will range in size from 800 square feet for remodeled locations to 1,500 square feet for new sites .
Arco 's stores run from 1,500 to 2,500 square feet .
Code-Alarm Inc. , a tiny technology company whose stock price has ridden a roller-coaster in recent months , said it postponed a planned public offering .
`` Today 's market conditions in general are inappropriate for our proposed common stock offering , '' Rand Mueller , president and chief executive officer , said in a statement .
`` We will therefore delay the offering until the market price for the company 's shares is more in line with the real worth of Code-Alarm . ''
The company , which is traded over the counter , has seen its stock trade anywhere from $ 4.25 a share to $ 15.375 over the past year .
Its shares shot up this summer after it announced major contracts with General Motors Corp. and Ford Motor Co. to sell its automobile security and keyless entry systems .
The contracts total $ 13.3 million , slightly more than Code-Alarm 's sales for all of 1987 .
When it announced the proposed offering in mid-October , it said it expected the new shares -- which would have increased by 50 % its 2.1 million shares outstanding -- to sell for about $ 13 each and yield between $ 11.7 million and $ 13.6 million total .
But the company 's stock has been trading close to $ 9 a share .
It closed in national over-the-counter trading yesterday at $ 9.75 a share , up 50 cents .
Unwanted Assets ?
Deficits and litigation .
-- Edward F. Dempsey .
That it 's been quite a spell .
-- Henry F. Hill .
A course in manners : urbane renewal .
-- Rodney Stevens .
Money-market mutual funds posted higher yields in the week ended Tuesday .
The average seven-day compounded yield rose to 7.90 % from 7.85 % last week , according to Donoghue 's Money Fund Report , a Holliston , Mass.-based newsletter .
The 30-day average compounded yield on all-taxable funds was up to 7.86 % from 7.81 % .
The average maturity of funds shortened to 37 days from 38 days in the previous week .
Average maturity of funds is an indicator of which direction professional money managers believe interest rates are headed .
Maturity shortens if rates are expected to rise .
Shorter-maturity issues allow professional investors to trade up to a higher interest rate sooner .
On all-taxable simple yields , the seven-day average was up to 7.60 % from 7.56 % , while the 30-day average increased to 7.57 % from 7.53 % .
Edward J. Sawicz , the 41-year-old president of DCNY Corp. was elected chairman of the company and its subsidiary Discount Corp. of New York , succeeding Ralph F. Peters , 59 , who will retire Jan. 1 .
Mr. Peters announced his intention to retire from the top post of the concern and unit , a primary dealer of U.S. government securities , at the annual meeting in May .
James P. Coughlin , 43 , executive vice president , will succeed Mr. Sawicz as president .
Mr. Peters , who has been with DCNY for 34 years , will remain a director and was elected chairman of the executive committee .
The surplus in the Philippine balance of payments narrowed to $ 137 million in the first eight months from $ 245 million a year earlier , the central bank said .
The balance of payments is the broadest measure of a country 's trade and capital flows .
The deficit in Denmark 's balance of payments narrowed to 2.2 billion kroner -LRB- $ 326.8 million -RRB- in the third quarter from 3.7 billion kroner a year earlier , the government said .
Consumer prices in Singapore were up 1.4 % in October from a year earlier but fell 0.2 % from September , the Department of Statistics said .
The month-to-month decline was mainly due to lower food prices .
Smith Laboratories Inc. said it agreed in principle to sell its Sutter Corp. unit to closely held Rehabilitation Technologies Inc. , of San Diego , for about $ 12 million , primarily in cash and a promissory note .
Sutter makes rehabilitation equipment for knee-surgery and hand-surgery patients , and silicone-joint implants .
Rehabilitation Technologies was founded by William A. Eisenecher , who was president of Sutter until October 1987 .
Smith , which makes , sells and rents medical equipment , said the sale is part of a strategic decision not to pursue additional investment in the rehabilitation business .
Railroad Savings & Loan Association said its directors approved a plan calling for the company to be restructured into a holding company with the thrift becoming a unit of Railroad Financial Corp. .
The savings and loan said the restructuring would give it more flexibility to diversify into other finance and home-related businesses .
The plan is subject to regulator and stockholder approval .
Foote , Cone & Belding Communications Inc. said it adopted a new stockholder-rights plan that it said would provide `` additional protection against coercive or unfair takeover tactics . ''
The ad agency said the plan was n't in response to any known effort to acquire the company .
It said the rights `` should encourage anyone seeking to acquire the company to negotiate with the board first . ''
Guardian Industries Corp. said it signed the final documents forming a $ 115 million joint venture with Hungarian Glass Works .
The southeastern Hungary project will convert an existing sheet-glass plant to a modern float-glass facility .
Guardian makes flat-glass products for construction and transportation .
Boeing Co. said it received a $ 1.1 billion order for 22 commercial aircraft from Ansett Worldwide Aviation Services , the aircraft-leasing joint venture of the Australian concerns TNT Ltd. and News Corp. .
The purchase includes 16 Boeing 757 airplanes , which seat about 220 passengers , and six 767-300 extended-range jetliners , which seat about 250 .
Ansett Worldwide also took options on an additional seven 767 aircraft .
Ansett selected Rolls-Royce PLC 's RB211-535E4 engine for the 757s .
Engine selection for the 767s will be announced later .
Boeing , the Seattle-based aircraft and defense contracting concern , will begin delivering the 757s in October 1990 , with further deliveries extending into 1995 .
Deliveries of the 767s will begin in October 1990 and continue through 1993 .
Ansett Worldwide will have the right to substitute the standard -200 or -300 series for the 767 extended-range airplanes , in order to meet the requirements of the leasing market , Boeing said .
The transaction brings total orders for Boeing 's 757 aircraft to 387 , close to what industry obervers say is the break-even point of 400 orders for the 757 model .
To date this year , 148 of the 757s have been ordered , compared with 37 a year earlier .
The Ansett Worldwide order brings total 767 orders to 353 , with 76 ordered for the year to date , compared with 55 a year ago .
So far this year , a total of 595 Boeing jetliners of all models have been ordered , with a total value of $ 28 billion , compared with 321 airplanes valued at $ 16.5 billion for the same period last year .
In New York Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday , Boeing shares fell 75 cents to close at $ 60.875 .
TNT is a transportation concern ; News Corp. is Rupert Murdoch 's media company .
Coca-Cola Co. , which stalked out of India 11 years ago , is knocking on the door again .
Coke applied for permission to build a $ 3 million wholly owned plant in an export-processing zone near Delhi .
The facility would produce substances needed to manufacture Coke concentrate .
As much as 25 % of the product could be sold in India , while the rest would have to be exported , to meet Indian regulations .
The Atlanta-based cola giant 's move could foreshadow a turf war on the subcontinent since it follows by just two months rival PepsiCo Inc. 's announcement that it was starting a $ 17 million joint venture in India -- 39.9 % owned by Pepsi -- despite tough restrictions imposed by the Indian government .
Beyond that , the drive into India , with its 800 million people , appears to be an attempt by Coke to keep Pepsi from one day owning the Indian market .
Coke currently outsells Pepsi by about 3.6 to 1 outside the U.S. .
`` I do n't think Coke would like Pepsi to have exclusivity in that large a market , '' said Lee Wilder , an analyst at Robinson-Humphrey Co. .
A spokesman for Pepsi , based in Purchase , N.Y. , declined to comment on Coke 's application .
The soft-drink industry is growing at a healthy 5 % rate in the U.S. , but it is expanding at about 16 % elsewhere , said Jesse Meyers , publisher of the newsletter Beverage Digest .
`` India is high on everybody 's target list , '' he said .
`` Soft drinks are going to be an important part of the Indian subcontinent . ''
Indians drink about 2.4 billion bottles of name-brand soft drinks a year .
Although that 's a small number on a per-capita basis , industry analysts estimate the market is growing at 20 % annually .
Neither Coke nor Pepsi products are being sold in India .
A Coke spokesman said the company believes its application complies with Indian regulations , but he refused to speculate about how long it might take before a decision is handed down .
The only American cola maker selling in India said that could take time .
L. Edward Shanks , president and chief operating officer of closely held Double-Cola Co. , said : `` Take nothing for granted in India .
This I am sure will be a big political issue , regardless of how well Coke has its ducks lined up . ''
Double-Cola , which commands only about 1 % of the U.S. soft-drink market from its base in Chattanooga , Tenn. , set up franchises in India in 1987 .
It took the company six years to negotiate its entry .
Coke left India in 1977 , after being there 27 years , when the government ruled that foreign companies could n't own more than 40 % of their Indian subsidiaries .
The ruling would have required Coke to turn over the formula for its concentrate to its Indian partners .
But , cola company officials said , the investment environment has improved recently for American companies and new rules make operating in the export-processing zone attractive .
Coke , for example , could import key ingredients for its Indian production , thereby maintaining the secrecy of its concentrate formula .
Coke said that if its application is approved , production earmarked for domestic use could be sold to an Indian company that would produce finished concentrate , which could then be sold to Indian bottlers .
Coke might want to hold a stake in any concentrate-completing company , the spokesman said .
While India is a huge potential market , analysts do n't expect any operations there to affect Coke 's earnings anytime soon .
`` India will n't affect earnings estimates for the next three years , but it could be in the top 10 markets in the next 15 years , '' said Ms. Wilder .
FPL Group Inc. said it completed the sale of two units to Congressional Information Service Inc. , a U.S. unit of Elsevier N.V. , a Dutch publishing company .
FPL did n't disclose terms of the sale of the two units , Real Estate Data Inc. , Miami , and Damar Corp. , Los Angeles .
Both are real-estate-information companies .
The utility-holding group said it expected to complete the sale of a third unit , CBR Information Group Inc. , a Houston credit-information and collection company , by year end .
FPL said the three sales will complete the divestiture of Praxis Group Inc. , the Vienna , Va. , holding company for the three units , which FPL acquired in 1985 .
Steel imports for the first nine months of 1988 rose 8.2 % from year-ago levels .
But because of bolstered domestic shipments , foreign steel penetrated less of the U.S. market and thus approached the target set by President Reagan 's import-restraint program , the American Iron and Steel Institute said .
The trade group said imports through the first three quarters rose to 16,072,000 net tons from 14,848,000 a year earlier .
However , 1988 imports represented just 20.6 % of the apparent supply in the U.S. market , compared with 21.2 % in the 1987 period .
The target of the president 's controversial trade program , known as voluntary restraint agreements , or VRAs , is about 20.2 % .
The institute 's compilation of Commerce Department data also showed that imports rose 5.6 % in September from yearearlier levels .
Specifically , they climbed for the month to 1,648,000 net tons -- representing 19.7 % of the U.S. market -- from 1,560,000 net tons a year earlier .
In August , imports were 1,783,000 net tons .
Imports from developing nations and the European Economic Community surged year-to-year in September -- 16.5 % and 13.6 % , respectively .
Imports from Japan fell 7.4 % and imports from Canada fell 9.3 % over the same stretch .
Separately , the American Institute for Imported Steel -- which , unlike the American Iron and Steel Institute , opposes the VRAs -- said it figured that steel imports for the first nine months fell below the targets set by the VRAs .
The importers ' trade association uses a different base number to make its calculations , excluding semifinished steel bound for U.S. mills .
The Inter-American Development Bank approved a $ 200 million loan to Mexico to support the country 's agricultural-credit program .
Bank officials said the money will be channeled by a Mexican agricultural-credit bank to small-scale farmers to help them purchase supplies and equipment to increase farm production .
Grand Metropolitan PLC extended its hostile takeover bid for Irish Distillers Group PLC to Dec. 3 from Tuesday and said it currently controls 32.64 % of the Irish whiskey maker 's shares .
The British drinks group is offering 525 Irish pence -LRB- $ 8.02 -RRB- a share for Irish Distillers , valuing the entire company at 332 million punt -LRB- $ 507.5 million -RRB- , against a friendly bid of 450 Irish pence , or 285 million punt , from France 's Pernod Ricard S.A. .
The extension is expected to allow time for the British Panel on Takeovers and Mergers to rule on the propriety of commitments Pernod gained from Irish Distillers shareholders before announcing its bid Sept. 5 .
Pernod , which claims to control 52.8 % of Irish Distillers , has said it would release shareholders from the commitments if the takeover panel rules against it .
Stuarts Department Stores Inc. said it ended the lease on a store in Brunswick , Maine , and will take an undetermined charge against earnings by the end of its year ending Jan. 31 .
The discount department store operator said the charge will reflect a write-down of fixed assets , inventory disposal and severance pay in relation to the store closing .
The store , which has about 40 employees , will close in early Jan .
The company said `` due to the store 's above average size and the level of sales volume it has developed , the store has not been profitable . ''
The company said it has n't determined in which quarter it will take the charge .
Computer Identics Corp. , a maker of bar-code products , said it sold about one million of its common shares for 50 cents each in a private sale to current investors in the company , including several officers and directors .
The company said proceeds will be used for bank debt reduction and for working capital .
After the sale , Computer Identics has about 8.8 million voting common shares and about 574,000 nonvoting common shares outstanding , a spokesman said .
Toward the end of `` Spoils of War , '' the new play at the Music Box Theater , playwright Michael Weller has written a harrowing , insightful scene that has the audience members on the edge of their seats .
Elise and Andrew are the divorced parents of 15-year-old Martin .
Prior to World War II , Elise and Andrew were close comrades in a left-wing political group , as well as husband and wife .
When Andrew returned from several years of wartime service , the two separated , politically as well as personally , and when we meet them , in the 1950s , they have moved even further apart .
Andrew -LRB- Jeffrey de Munn -RRB- has become a well-dressed , uptight commercial photographer with a new lady friend named Penny -LRB- Marita Geraghty -RRB- .
Elise -LRB- Kate Nelligan -RRB- is a flamboyant , free spirit who is becoming more rather than less unconventional .
She drinks too much , cavalierly borrows merchandise from the high-fashion showroom where she works , and when given a choice between having the telephone or the electricity cut off for non-payment , unhesitatingly chooses the latter because , in her words , `` Nothing unexpected ever came to me by way of the refrigerator . ''
Martin -LRB- Christopher Collet -RRB- , the son , lives with his mother .
He 's devoted to her , but she drives him crazy with her unpredictable affection .
Skimping on herself , she sends him away to the best boarding school she can find , but when parents ' weekend rolls around she fails to show up despite repeated avowals to do so .
Martin 's obsession is to bring his divorced parents together , and to this end he schemes endlessly .
Finally , in the climactic scene of the play , he succeeds .
Elise starts the scene with a bang when , upon meeting Penny , she remarks to Andrew , `` You did n't used to settle for such small change . ''
The two combatants spar with one another while an anxious Martin hovers in the background .
After a time , Elise and Andrew recall the old days : the political causes they shared and the chemistry between them .
They laugh ; Elise sings `` I Saw You Last Night '' ; Martin , the cheerleader , tries to get them to dance together .
Then the mood snaps ; they are in the present again .
Elise holds out empty arms , pleading with Andrew to fill them , but the chasm is too wide , the distance traveled in different directions too great .
Elise humiliates Andrew ; she starts to leave , demanding that Martin come with her , but he refuses .
Martin 's personal universe has been blown apart , never to come together in the same way again .
The scene is written with a combination of unbridled passion and sure-handed control : In the exchanges of the three characters and the rise and fall of emotions , Mr. Weller has captured the heartbreaking inexorability of separation .
Unfortunately , this scene occurs two hours into the play , and what goes before does not come close to matching it in intensity or insight .
The play is supposed to operate on several levels : The spoils of the title refer to political wars and to World War II as well as the personal war between Elise and Andrew , but in most cases this is described rather than dramatized .
Mr. Weller is a sensitive , observant writer and Ms. Nelligan , as Elise , is an authoritative actress with a strong stage presence , but neither the writer nor the star can give `` Spoils of War '' the dimension it achieves in its one climactic scene .
Though not one of George Bernard Shaw 's major plays , `` The Devil 's Disciple '' is a delightful minor one , and it is being given an effervescent , thoroughly engaging production at the Circle in the Square Theater .
Written in 1896 , it has several historical distinctions : For one , it had its premiere not in England but in the U.S. ; for another , it was Shaw 's first hit .
Set in a New Hampshire village during the Revolutionary War , it is a melodrama that Shaw , in his inimitable fashion , turns upside down .
Dick Dudgeon , the title character , is a religious rebel who is the bane of his strait-laced mother and his equally puritanical relatives .
Among those shocked by Dick 's irreverent attitude are the local minister , Anthony Anderson , and his wife , Judith , who declares so loudly and so often how much she detests Dick that we know from the start that she is madly in love with him .
Dick is having tea with the Andersons when Anthony is called away on an emergency .
Several British soldiers crash in on Judith and Dick , assuming that the latter is the minister whom they have come to take away to be hanged .
A hero despite himself , Dick decides to take the minister 's place and marches off to the gallows .
In the end , of course , Dick is not hanged and , in true Shavian style , both he and the minister discover that their true calling is the opposite of what they had always thought .
Along the way Shaw makes fun not only of religious hypocrisy and fanaticism but the British soldier .
Gen. Burgoyne is commander of the British troops , and when Dick asks to be shot rather than hanged , the general points out that in view of the ineptitude and inaccuracy of British marksmen , hanging is far more merciful .
For the current revival director Stephen Porter has assembled a top-flight cast of actors who obviously are enjoying themselves as much as Shaw did .
Roxanne Hart is a charmingly distraught minister 's wife ; Remak Ramsey is her marvelously stuffy husband ; Philip Bosco is a knowing , witty Burgoyne ; and Victor Garber is having a field day as Dick Dudgeon .
It 's a matinee idol 's star turn , and Mr. Garber is making the most of it , combining bravado and good humor with a becoming modesty .
Testor Corp. 's F-19 Stealth fighter kit created quite a stir when it came out in 1986 .
The design of the plastic model -- supposed to resemble the sleek , black supersonic fighter then rumored to be one of the Air Force 's most secret weapons -- was `` based upon years of extensive research , '' the kit 's instructions proclaimed .
Once , when Lockheed Corp. , then rumored to be the plane 's maker , was on the congressional griddle for security lapses , Rep. Ronald Wyden waved the Testor model in front of TV cameras to show that even kids knew what the company 's hush-hush plane looked like .
Lockheed officials , as always on questions about the existence of a Stealth fighter , were mute .
But now it 's time for Testor to be a bit quieter .
Its Stealth fighter , it turns out , does n't look much at all like the stubby , batlike plane pictured in the Air Force 's press release last week acknowledging for the first time the plane 's existence .
Testor 's plane does n't even have the right name .
The real Stealth is designated the F-117A , not F-19 .
`` Anyone who has two eyes can see the resemblance is fleeting at best , '' concedes John Dewey , a spokesman for Testor in Rockford , Ill. .
He says the F-19 models will n't be recalled from model-shop shelves , but adds : `` We certainly do n't anticipate any big production runs in the future . ''
John Andrews , the designer of the Testor F-19 , says his work was n't ever advertised as the real thing .
And as for turning out a model based on the picture of the F-117A , `` we just do n't feel what has been released at this point in time is enough to go on . ''
That also goes for the Northrop Corp. B-2 Stealth bomber scheduled to be shown for the first time next week , he says .
The next Stealth model `` had better be accurate '' if model builders are going to buy it , Mr. Andrews says .
Still , Testor sees some silver linings in the experience .
It sold 800,000 copies of the F-19 at about $ 10 each -- more than 10 times the sales of the company 's previous best seller .
And , ironically , if model fans really want something that looks more like the F-117A Stealth , Testor offers a Soviet Stealth fighter model that the company claims is fairly close to the Lockheed plane .
Anyway , Mr. Dewey says , if the F-19 had been too close to the real thing , `` there 'd have been guys with trench coats -LRB- all -RRB- over us . ''
Japan is launching a last-ditch effort to persuade the Reagan administration , during its last weeks in power , to lift trade sanctions against Japanese electronic products .
Tokyo this week began presenting arguments to administration officials that it is doing sufficiently well in guaranteeing U.S. semiconductor chip makers access to its market to justify removal of punitive U.S. tariffs , imposed by President Reagan last year , against $ 165 million of Japanese laptop computers and other products .
The U.S. share of Japan 's chip market has increased only slightly , even Tokyo concedes .
But in making its last-minute appeal , Japan is contending that alternate ways of measuring U.S. success in the market make things look better .
A senior administration official said the new Japanese argument will be studied seriously , and might win the support of the State Department .
But he predicted it would be fiercely opposed by trade officials , and he concluded the odds are against any lifting of the sanctions .
Still , President Reagan has gone against the advice of his own trade specialists on two occasions and lifted parts of the sanctions , which initially covered $ 300 million of Japanese products .
The Japanese are hoping that the president , who philosophically opposes trade retaliation , will be inclined to `` tidy up the mess before he leaves office , '' said a U.S. lawyer who is advising Japan 's Ministry of International Trade and Industry , or MITI .
The administration also is hearing strong appeals from U.S. chip makers to hang tough , though .
The U.S. contends that Tokyo implicitly promised , in a side letter to a 1986 U.S.-Japan semiconductor agreement , to provide U.S. companies 20 % of the domestic Japanese chip market .
In a letter sent this week to senior U.S. trade officials , the MITI conceded that the U.S. share of the Japanese market grew only modestly to 10.7 % last summer from 8.5 % when the pact was concluded .
But the MITI said U.S. sales have been booming in absolute terms .
It reported that these sales surged to $ 465 million in the 1988 second quarter from $ 274 million a year earlier .
In addition , the MITI claimed that the number of `` design-ins , '' or Japanese decisions to buy U.S. chips for products still on the drawing board , has nearly doubled to 641 in the past six months .
Among such arrangements reported by the MITI are Matsushita Electric Industrial Co. 's purchase of partly customized chips from Texas Instruments Inc. for videocassette recorders , and Sony Corp. 's purchase of Motorola Inc. microprocessors for eight-millimeter video cameras .
Hitachi Ltd. also has decided to use Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 's latest products , while Toyota Motor Corp. is discussing with Motorola joint development of microprocessors for automotive applications , the MITI letter said .
The letter was signed by Shigeo Muraoka , the Japanese vice minister for international affairs .
MITI Minister Hajime Tamura could follow it with a personal appeal to U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter and Commerce Secretary William Verity , MITI aides said .
Moreover , Tokyo contends that the 1986 side letter was merely a recognition of U.S. market-access objectives and not a firm commitment to give U.S. vendors 20 % of the Japanese market .
That letter , which was signed by Japan 's ambassador to the U.S. , Nobuo Matsunaga , stated that the attainment of this goal depends on `` competitive factors , '' the `` sales efforts '' of U.S. vendors , the `` purchasing efforts '' of Japanese buyers , and the `` efforts of both governments . ''
Donald Phillips , the U.S. assistant trade representative for industry , will assess the Japanese case in bilateral talks today and tomorrow .
Any decision to ease the sanctions would provoke a sharp protest from U.S. chip makers .
Indeed , the Semiconductor Industry Association , the U.S. industry lobby group , has urged the White House to raise the stakes in the trade dispute by denying Japanese chip makers permanent protection for their chip designs .
In a letter sent this week to the U.S. Patents and Trademarks Office , Semiconductor Industry Association President Andrew Procassini argued that a 1984 law gives the White House discretion to deny such rights to a country that fails to give `` reciprocal market access '' to U.S. vendors .
Under the law , chip makers in Japan qualified for interim protection , because their government adopted an equivalent law in 1985 .
But such protection could lapse in 1991 , unless the White House issues a proclamation granting Japanese chip makers permanent protection , according to lawyers for the Electronic Industries Association of Japan .
Asked to edit the 1988 entry in the annual `` Best American Short Stories '' series , fiction writer Mark Helprin decided to shake things up .
He has .
In his bracing , witty , two-fisted introduction to the 20 stories he has chosen for this collection -LRB- Houghton Mifflin , 345 pages , $ 17.95 -RRB- , Mr. Helprin lays out the current literary scene with combative honesty .
The literary environment has been further devastated by the seeping poison of minimalists , purveyors of spare , uninvolved fiction that documents the banality and pointlessness of existence .
According to Mr. Helprin , the minimalists `` appear to start from the premise that the world has unjustly offended their innate virtue and forced them to become trenchant , impassive observers of its universal offensiveness . ''
Actually , in his eyes , they are cowards before the risks and challenges of life who have made a `` virtual industry '' out of ridiculing `` effort , perfection , devotion , fidelity , honor , belief , love , bravery . ''
They have created instead an airless , `` anaerobic '' fiction that expresses nothing but their own spiritual exhaustion .
But even while surveying this blighted landscape , Mr. Helprin unabashedly begins to reclaim some of the hallowed ground that literature once occupied .
Nowhere do truth and beauty `` run together with such complexity and power as in the gracefully written word , '' he declares , and there is much in this collection that pulls us toward that sacred space where the power of the word is wielded with purpose , effect and consequence .
Of course , even Mr. Helprin 's writers must confront , at least to some extent , the minimalist world of breakup , dissolution , disappointment , confusion and loss .
They must , after all , give literary expression to an unraveling society .
But for the most part , Mr. Helprin 's authors do not hide behind minimalist affectlessness .
For example , the story of a dissolving marriage , Richard Bausch 's `` Police Dreams , '' is unapologetically weighted with the anxiety and humiliation a husband feels when his wife coarsely and selfishly rejects him .
In `` Wonderland , '' by C.S. Godshalk , a single mother temporarily abandons her two sons .
The older boy struggles to keep the `` family '' together .
He is at once enraged and baffled , determined to be tough but also feeling helpless and hurt .
He is presented by the author with dry-eyed compassion .
Not all the stories are about intense suffering of this kind .
In Lucy Honig 's `` No Friends , All Strangers , '' the daily subway ride that the protagonist must take becomes a framework that serves to unite the story 's fragmented perceptions .
Sometimes an almost Joycean moment of insight or release redeems a tale of anguish or regret .
In Mary Ann Taylor-Hall 's `` Banana Boats , '' an old woman moves toward self-knowledge as she confronts the gradual failure that has marked her life .
In Richard Currey 's `` Waiting for Trains , '' a lonely Vietnam veteran wonders `` how things begin , how anything finds a first moment and drives out of . . . darkness into . . . life . ''
But then he experiences a brush with danger that seems to set him free .
